'Gene-edited babies': China halts work of He Jiankui - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Local Tomorrow's World TV Radio Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World selected US & Canada UK Business Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Asia selected China selected India China China 'Gene-edited babies': China halts work of He Jiankui 29 November 2018 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-46382662 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright AFP Image caption Prof He says there is a potential second pregnancy China has halted the work of the scientist who claims to have created the world's first genetically edited babies, and says it will investigate. He Jiankui caused outrage earlier this week when he told a genome summit he had altered the genes of twin baby girls so they could not contract HIV. His statement has not been confirmed, but if true breaks tight rules around the use of gene editing in humans. Prof He's university said it was unaware of his experiment. The Southern University of Science and Technology in Shenzhen said earlier in the week he had been on unpaid leave since February, and it would be investigating the claims. On Thursday, China's science ministry said it had "demanded that the relevant organisation suspend the scientific activities of relevant personnel". The National Health Commission has already said Prof He's work "seriously violates China's laws, regulations and ethical standards" and would investigate the claims. What the scientist claimed? Prof He announced that he had altered the DNA of embryos - twin girls known as Lulu and Nana - to prevent them from contracting HIV. Speaking to the Human Genome Editing Summit at the University of Hong Kong, he said the girls were "born normal and healthy" and they would be monitored over the next 18 years. He said he had funded the experiment himself and confirmed his university had not been aware of it. Prof He also explained that eight couples - comprised of HIV-positive fathers and HIV-negative mothers - had signed up voluntarily for the experiment. One couple dropped out, but there was "another potential pregnancy" of a gene-edited embryo in its early stages. He said his study had been submitted to a scientific journal for review, though he did not name the journal. He was also evasive about other details, including the names of "some experts" he said had reviewed his work and offered feedback. Why is his work controversial? The Crispr gene editing tool he claims to have used is not new to the scientific world, and was first discovered in 2012. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media captionFergus Walsh: "CRISPR gene editing .... uses molecular scissors to cut both strands of DNA" It works by using "molecular scissors" to alter a very specific strand of DNA - either cutting it out, replacing it or tweaking it. Gene editing could potentially help avoid heritable diseases by deleting or changing troublesome coding in embryos. What is Crispr? Crispr: Human embryos and ethical concerns But experts worry meddling with the genome of an embryo could cause harm not only to the individual but also future generations that inherit these same changes. Hundreds of scientists, both in China and around the world, swiftly condemned his claims. Professor Julian Savulescu, an ethics expert at the University of Oxford, said if true "this experiment is monstrous". "Gene editing itself is experimental and is still associated with off-target mutations, capable of causing genetic problems early and later in life, including the development of cancer," he told the BBC. "This experiment exposes healthy normal children to risks of gene editing for no real necessary benefit." Many countries, including the UK, have laws that prevent the use of genome editing in embryos for assisted reproduction in humans. Scientists can do gene editing research on discarded IVF embryos, as long as they are destroyed immediately afterwards and not used to make a baby. China allows in-vitro human embryonic stem cell research for a maximum period of 14 days, China's Deputy Minister of Science and Technology Xu Nanping clarified. Related Topics Genetics China Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story China baby gene editing claim 'dubious' 26 November 2018 Gene editing technique could transform future 6 June 2016 Gene-editing hope for muscular dystrophy 30 August 2018 Top Stories Trump ex-lawyer admits lying to Congress Michael Cohen says he lied "out of loyalty" to Mr Trump, while the president says he is "weak". 29 November 2018 Race to pull greenhouse gases from air 29 November 2018 Trump cancels Putin talks over Ukraine 29 November 2018 Features Six surprising statistics about immigrants in the US Why is the Taj Mahal crumbling? Video How sextortion scammers targeted a BBC reporter What (else) we've just learnt about Russia probe BBC Future: Is breakfast really the most important meal? How your old computer is reborn as a robot Video Romania's disappearing forest Are free ports the future? Why has the UK not blocked Huawei? Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Asia Sections Asia China selected India Home Video World selected World Home Africa Asia selected Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On your connected tv Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Local Tomorrow's World TV Radio Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
