2018 Zhanjiang Special USEUROPEAFRICAASIA 中文双语Français HOME CHINA WORLD BUSINESS LIFESTYLE CULTURE TRAVEL SPORTS OPINION REGIONAL FORUM NEWSPAPER China Daily PDF China Daily E-paper MOBILE Coastal magnet set to attract more emerging investments National marine show lands a record at latest event Annual event in metropolis showcasing maritime sector's heavyweights Expo should provide big boost for economy in Zhanjiang Efforts accelerated as city aims to become key regional transportation hub High-speed rail puts Zhanjiang on fast-track for economic growth Zhanjiang aims to grow into a major pivot of the modern coastal economic belt in Guangdong. Coastal city in Guangdong province looks to deepen economic, shipping, tourism links with neighbors 1 2 3 4 Zhanjiang on the growth accelerator Zhanjiang, one of the most important marine cities in southern Guangdong province, is strengthening its reform and opening-up effort to accelerate its already rapidly growing economy and to enhance its development potential, according to senior local officials. READ MORE News Zhanjiang on the growth accelerator Updated: 2018-11-27 Zhanjiang, one of the most important marine cities in southern Guangdong province, is strengthening its reform and opening-up effort to accelerate its already rapidly growing economy and to enhance its development potential, according to senior local officials. Coastal magnet set to attract more emerging investments Updated: 2018-11-27 Overseas and domestic companies are increasingly seeing the coastal city of Zhanjiang as a prime emerging investment destination - given its abundant marine resources and improving transportation infrastructure, according to leading businessmen. National marine show lands a record at latest event Updated: 2018-11-27 The China Marine Economy Expo, the nation's only State-level comprehensive marine show, wrapped up with preliminary agreements on deals worth more than 110 billion yuan ($15.8 billion) signed in Zhanjiang, Guangdong province on Sunday, a record since its launch in 2012. Expo should provide big boost for economy in Zhanjiang Updated: 2018-11-20 Zhanjiang in Guangdong province has long striven to become a maritime powerhouse in China, with its economic growth closely tied to its ocean industries - and the upcoming China Marine Economy Expo is expected to be a major step toward that goal. Annual event in metropolis showcasing maritime sector's heavyweights Updated: 2018-11-20 The upcoming China Marine Economy Expo in Zhanjiang, Guangdong province will feature several companies that have pledged massive investments in the city, such as German chemical giant BASF, which plans to invest $10 billion in a fi ne chemical project. What they say Updated: 2018-11-20 The China Marine Economy Expo is a large marine economic and trade event co-hosted by the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Guangdong provincial government. Efforts accelerated as city aims to become key regional transportation hub Updated: 2018-07-04 The Zhanjiang city government has pledged to redouble its efforts to improve its transportation network, in line with decisions outlined in the city government's 13th Five-Year Plan (2016-20), for it to become a major regional transportation hub. Tourism industry to boom on back of big investment projects Updated: 2018-07-04 In the wake of the decision to turn Zhanjiang into a major tourism destination of Southern China in the city government's 13th Five-Year Plan (2016-20), swathes of investment has flowed into the coastal city to create a new pillar of industry. High-speed rail puts Zhanjiang on fast-track for economic growth Updated: 2018-07-04 The long-awaited high-speed rail link to Zhanjiang - the Jiangmen-Zhanjiang Railway - was met with universal acclaim during a trial run for the public last Saturday. Officials said it looks set to provide the coastal city in Southern China's Guangdong province with a hefty economic boost. Coastal city in Guangdong province looks to deepen economic, shipping, tourism links with neighbors Updated: 2018-03-16 Zhanjiang in Guangdong province will establish wider connections with nearby cities and overseas markets to help its economy thrive, according to the city's top officials. Entrepreneurs invest funds in, bring new ideas to hometown Updated: 2018-03-16 Entrepreneurs from Zhanjiang, a southern China coastal city, have invested generously in their hometown to beef up the local economy. Transport network projects launched, boosting integration Updated: 2018-03-16 Zhanjiang in Guangdong province has made great breakthroughs in the construction of transportation infrastructure construction since the city was positioned as a national comprehensive traffic hub last year. PDF 2018-11-27 2018-11-20 2018-07-04 2018-03-16 Photos China Marine Economy Expo in Zhanjiang attracts some 50,000 professional visitors Aid aircraft performs a rescue operation drill during the expo Visitors take photos with China's manned submersible Jiaolong Representative from BASF introduces products Foreign buyers show great interest in local products Exhibitors seek business opportunities High-speed train glides along the tracks of the Jiangmen-Zhanjiang Railway Passengers prepare to board a high-speed train Coastal city looks to deepen links with neighbors Zhanjiang cooperates with overseas markets BACK TO THE TOP HOME CHINA WORLD BUSINESS LIFESTYLE CULTURE TRAVEL SPORTS OPINION REGIONAL FORUM NEWSPAPER China Daily PDF China Daily E-paper MOBILE Copyright 1995 - . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site. License for publishing multimedia online 0108263 Registration Number: 130349 About China Daily Advertise on Site Contact Us Job Offer Expat Employment FOLLOW US
