8392/8392 aviation photos on JetPhotos Cookies on JetPhotos Like most sites, this site uses cookies. We use them for a number of reasons: We use our own cookies to store session and settings data. We use third party cookies for analytics tracking. We use data gathered from tracking to understand user behavior and to help us improve the website. We use third party cookies for presenting ads. By using this site, you agree to the use of cookies. Please see our privacy policy for more information including a full list of cookies that are in use. Photos Today's most popular New Registrations Recently added Upload photos Photo albums Photographer stats Spotting groups Badges About Contact About Privacy policy Terms of service Social Forum Facebook Twitter vk.com Log in Sign up Profile Photos Change password Log out Sign up Log in Photos Today's most popular New Registrations Recently added Upload photos Photo albums Photographer stats Spotting groups Badges About Contact About Privacy policy Terms of service Social Forum Facebook Twitter vk.com Aircraft All aircraft Airline All airlines Country / Airport All countries and airports Photographer / Group All photographers Category All categories Editor's Pics Screener's Choice Photos of the Week Accident Photos Air-to-Air Photos Airport (Terminal) Photos Artistic (Effects) Photos Business Jet Photos Cabin (Interior) Photos Cargo Aircraft Photos Flight Deck (Cockpit) Photos Helicopter Photos Lighter-than-Air Photos Night/Sunrise/Sunset Photos Small Prop (Cessna, etc.) Special Paint Schemes Wing View (Out the Window) Warbird/Vintage Keywords All fields Aircraft Airline Airport Country Photographer Registration Serial No. Remarks Camera Lens Contains Photo year All years Search Multi-select search If you are looking for photos of a specific aircraft type, use this menu. Please note that, due to space constraints, this menu includes only some of the more requested aircraft in our database. If the aircraft you're searching for is not in this list, use the 'Keywords' field further down in the search menus. Some menu selections include a generic aircraft model, as well as more specific variants of that airliner. These variants are denoted by a - before the aircraft name. Selecting 'Boeing 747,' for example, will show results featuring all Boeing 747 jetliners in our database, while selecting '- Boeing 747-200' will show all Boeing 747-200 variants in our database (Boeing 747-200, Boeing 747-212B, Boeing 747-283F, etc.) If you are looking for photos of a specific airline, use this menu. Please note that, due to space constraints, this menu includes only airlines of which 10 or more photos exist in our database. If the airline you're searching for is not in this list, use the 'Keywords' field further down in the search menu. Airlines are listed in alphabetical order. If you are looking for photos taken in a specific country, or at a specific airport, use this menu. All countries represented in our database are included in this selection menu, which is updated automatically as the database grows. There must be at least 20 photos from a specific airport in the database before that airport is added to this list. Use this option to include only photos taken by a specific photographer in your search. This pulldown menu, in addition to each photographer available as a search limiter, also shows the number of photos currently in the database for each specific photographer, enclosed in brackets. For example, an option of: - Paul Jones [550] .. indicates that there are 550 total photos taken by Paul Jones currently in the database. Note: The total number of photos, enclosed in brackets, is updated four (4) times hourly, and may be slightly inaccurate. Photographers must have 100 or more photos in the database before their name is included in this selection menu.. The 'All Photographers' selection is the default selection for this option. If you are looking for a specific category of photo, use this menu. You may select to display only photos from certain categories, such as Special Paintschemes, Flight Deck photos, etc. New categories are constantly being added to this list. The 'Keywords' field is perhaps the most useful field included in our search engine. Using this field, you may search for any word, term, or combinations of terms in our database. Every photo field is covered by the Keywords search routine. The Keywords field is ideal for searching for such specifics as aircraft registrations, photographers' names, specific airport/city names, specific paintschemes (i.e. 'Wunala Dreaming'), etc. To use the Keywords field, begin by selecting a Keyworld search field. You may select either a specific database field (airline, aircraft, etc.), or choose to match your keyword to all database fields. Next, select a Keyword limiter. There are three options from which to choose: - is exactly - starts with - contains Select the appropriate limiter for your search, then enter the keyword(s) you wish to search in the box on the right. The Keywords search field is not case-sensitive. Use this option to include only photos taken in a specific year in your search. This pulldown menu, in addition to each year available as a search limiter, also shows the number of photos currently in the database for each specific year, enclosed in brackets. For example, an option of: - 2003 [55000] .. indicates that there are 55,000 total photos taken in the year 2003 currently in the database. *Note: The total number of photos, enclosed in brackets, is updated four (4) times hourly, and may be slightly inaccurate. Additionally, decade ranges (1990-1999, etc.) are available as selections in this menu. Selecting a decade range will show all photos matching your other search criteria from the selected decade. The 'All Years' selection is the default selection for this option. Aircraft Airline Airport Photographer Date From Date To Date Remove Selected Dates Search Advanced Search Loading... Modify search Civilian only Military only Sort by: Added (newest) Added (oldest) Photo taken date (newest) Photo taken date (oldest) Views (highest) Views (lowest) Add Photo to a JP Photo Album You do not have any albums. Please create one by clicking here Add Photo No Results Modify search Roman Angelo T. Waquiz Bell UH-1D Iroquois 8392 photos Philippines - Air Force Airline: Philippines - Air Force Reg: 8392 photos Aircraft: Bell UH-1D Iroquois Serial #: 8392 Photo date: 2015-06-12 Uploaded: 2015-11-01 Likes: 0 Comments: 0 Views: 1,052 Location: Manila Ninoy Aquino Int'l Airport - RPLL, Philippines By: Roman Angelo T. Waquiz Photos | Profile | Contact Badges: Album Like Share Note: [MILITARY] A/an Philippine Air Force UH-1D Huey helicopter with registration #8392 parked in Villamor Airbase. It is a part of 207th Tactical Helicopter Squadron. Log in If you're not yet a member, please sign up for an account. Forgot password? Remember me Log in Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Loading... Thank you for verifying your email address! Your account has been created. Your comment has been submitted. Copyright © 2002-2018 JetPhotos All Rights Reserved. Facebook Twitter vk.com Forum
