Academic Study of CCP's Use of Fake News Against The Church of Almighty God Is Published | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Academic Study of CCP’s Use of Fake News Against The Church of Almighty God Is Published Academic Study of CCP’s Use of Fake News Against The Church of Almighty God Is Published 08/20/2018 Bitter Winter In the July-August 2018 of The Journal of CESNUR, sociologist Massimo Introvigne discusses the notion of fake news, and how CCP organizes international campaigns of fake news to justify the persecution of certain groups, with a case study of The Church of Almighty God. “Fake news” became a household word in 2016, thanks to its liberal use by Donald Trump—although his opponents later accused him of spreading fake news too. Since 2016, some 200 academic studies have tried to define the concept of fake news and how it is different from false news or disinformation. A consensus has emerged that fake news are false news spread in an organized and systematic way, with consistent efforts made to make them appear as true, and with a skilled use of new technologies and social networks that distinguished them from Cold-War-era disinformation. Issue 4 of volume 2 of The Journal of CESNUR is the first treatment, in a whole journal issue, of fake news in the field of religion, particularly of new religious movements. In the introduction, Italian sociologist Massimo Introvigne notes that totalitarian regimes intent at persecuting minority religions try to crush them between the rock of religious persecution and the hard place of fake news. He gives the example of Emperor Nero of Rome, who repressed Christians for a variety of religious and political reasons. He then tried to justify a persecution that even some of his supporters regarded as excessively cruel by spreading what today would be called fake news about orgies and child abuse, and finally accusing the Christians of having set fire to Rome, a crime he had in fact perpetrated himself. The introduction also notes that Nero would hardly have succeeded alone: he mobilized religionists who were afraid of the Christian competition to help in spreading his fake news against the Christians. One of the articles in the issue, by the same Introvigne, available in various languages, applies the general argument to China and the CCP, after a thorough review of academic definitions of fake news, through a case study of Chinese propaganda against The Church of Almighty God (CAG). Introvigne notes that the CCP started persecuting the CAG for political reasons, well before it was accused of any crimes. When the persecution became internationally known and needed to be justified, the CCP fabricated a number of fake news, which were spread with the help of rival religionists, and the Beijing correspondents of some international media, who should have known better. Although different examples are mentioned, Introvigne identifies as “the mother of all fake news” about the CAG the CCP accusation that the CAG was responsible for the homicide of a woman in a McDonald’s diner in Zhaoyuan in 2014. Although academic studies demonstrated that the murder was perpetrated by a different new religious movement (although with a similar name), to this very day the CCP is trying to resurrect the dead horse of the CAG’s involvement in the McDonald’s murder, and still find international media willing to repeat its propaganda without checking their sources. Introvigne reports that, while two of the McDonald’s assassins were executed in 2015, two others, Lü Yingchun and Zhang Hang, are in jail. The Chinese media reported that they were successfully “re-educated” in jail, wrote voluminous criticism of the “cults,” and were rewarded with sentence reductions. To prove their “re-education,” the two women now declare that they had been initially corrupted by reading the CAG scriptures. However, despite the long permanence in jail, Zhang Hang still maintains that her movement believed that God had returned to Earth in the dual person of her sister Zhang Fan (who was executed in 2015) and Lü Yingchun, a belief that obviously would be anathema to the CAG and once again clarifies that the group that perpetrated the McDonald’s crime and the CAG are different and unrelated group, with very different doctrines. As late as 2018, while the persecution of the CAG intensified with massive waves of arrests, the CCP was still trying to attribute the homicide to the CAG by quoting as reliable sources the BBC and other Western media, conveniently forgetting that it had fed the fake news to them in the first place. “It was, Introvigne concludes, an interesting case of ‘fake news about fake news,’ showing once again that, after several years, the CCP still felt the need to refer to the McDonald’s murder to justify the persecution.” Tagged With: Church of Almighty God, Fake News Related articles The Most Persecuted Religious Movement In China: What Is The Church of Almighty God? Scholars, NGOs, Lawyers Protest Fake News and Persecution of The Church of Almighty God Children Deprived of Education for Their Parents’ Faith New Academic Study Debunks Allegations that The Church of Almighty God Is “Against the Family” Read more CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Senior CAG Leader Sentenced to 13 Years Excerpt from the verdict by the Intermediate People’s Court of Zaozhuang. Bao ... Almost 200 CAG Members Arrested in Anhui Anhui Province - Credits: DKMcLaren; CC BY-SA 4.0 Some believers from The Chur... “Legal Education Centers” to Reform Believers In several parts of Shaanxi Province, believers of The Church of Almighty God ha... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
