Action (philosophy) - Wikipedia Action (philosophy) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search The running of a human could be considered an action. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article is about the theory of action in general. For Ludwig von Mises' work on this subject, see Human Action. In philosophy, an action is that which is done by an agent. In common speech, the term is often used interchangeably with the term "behaviour". However, in the philosophy of action, behavioural sciences, and the social sciences, a distinction is made: behavior is automatic and reflexive activity, while action is an intentional, purposive, conscious and subjectively meaningful activity[citation needed]. Thus, things like running or throwing a ball is an instance of action; it involves intention, a goal, and a bodily movement guided by the agent. On the other hand, catching a cold is not considered an action because it is something which happens to a person, not something done by one.[citation needed] Contents 1 Perception 2 Movement 3 Reasons for action 4 See also 5 References 6 Further reading 7 External links Perception[edit] In enactivism theory, perception is understood to be sensorimotor in nature. That is, we carry out actions as an essential part of perceiving the world. Alva Noë states: We move our eyes, head and body in taking in what is around us... [we] crane our necks, peer, squint, reach for our glasses or draw near to get a better look...'…'Perception is a mode of activity on the part of the whole animal...It cannot be represented in terms of merely passive, and internal, processes...' [1] Movement[edit] Some would prefer to define actions as requiring bodily movement (see behaviorism).[citation needed] The side effects of actions are considered by some to be part of the action; in an example from Anscombe's manuscript Intention, pumping water can also be an instance of poisoning the inhabitants.[citation needed] This introduces a moral dimension to the discussion (see also Moral agency).[citation needed] If the poisoned water resulted in a death, that death might be considered part of the action of the agent that pumped the water.[citation needed] Whether a side effect is considered part of an action is especially unclear in cases in which the agent isn't aware of the possible side effects.[citation needed] For example, an agent that accidentally cures a person by administering a poison he was intending to kill him with.[citation needed] Reasons for action[edit] A primary concern of philosophy of action is to analyze the nature of actions and distinguish them from similar phenomena. Other concerns include individuating actions, explaining the relationship between actions and their effects, explaining how an action is related to the beliefs and desires which cause and/or justify it (see practical reason), as well as examining the nature of agency.[citation needed] A primary concern is the nature of free will and whether actions are determined by the mental states that precede them (see determinism). Some philosophers (e.g. Donald Davidson[2]) have argued that the mental states the agent invokes as justifying his action are physical states that cause the action.[citation needed] Problems have been raised for this view because the mental states seem to be reduced to mere physical causes.[citation needed] Their mental properties don't seem to be doing any work.[citation needed] If the reasons an agent cites as justifying his action, however, are not the cause of the action, they must explain the action in some other way or be causally impotent.[citation needed] See also[edit] Action theory Enactivism Praxeology Social action Social relation Affectional action Instrumental action Traditional action Value-rational action Communicative action Dramaturgical action Symbolic interactionism Group action Philosophy of Spinoza References[edit] ^ Alva Noë Action in Perception, (2004), MIT Press(pp1/2 and 111) ^ "Davidson, D. Essays on Actions and Events, 2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 2001a. J. R. Finkel, "History of the Arrow", Up Down Left Right (2011) Further reading[edit] Wilson, George. "Action". In Zalta, Edward N. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. External links[edit] Wikiquote has quotations related to: Action Media related to Action (philosophy) at Wikimedia Commons Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Action_(philosophy)&oldid=869029704" Categories: Action (philosophy) Concepts in metaphysics Determinism Free will Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2018 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2014 Articles with unsourced statements from May 2018 Commons category link from Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikiquote Languages Català Čeština Deutsch Eesti Français 한국어 Italiano Kiswahili Lietuvių Nederlands Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча Português Русский Српски / srpski ייִדיש Edit links This page was last edited on 15 November 2018, at 23:42 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
