Add description to Rubocop cops by vbrazo · Pull Request #704 · colszowka/simplecov Skip to content In this repository All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ No suggested jump to results In this repository All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ In this repository All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ Pull requests Issues Marketplace Explore New repository Import repository New gist New organization This repository New issue Signed in as Bricking Your profile Your repositories Your stars Your gists Help Settings Sign out Sign out Watch Notifications Not watching Be notified only when participating or @mentioned. Watch Releases only Be notified of new releases, and when participating or @mentioned. Unwatch releases Watching Be notified of all conversations. Unwatch Ignoring Never be notified. Stop ignoring 64 🔖 Release-only subscription You can now limit a repository's notifications exclusively to releases. Use it to follow your favorite repositories! Got it Unstar 3,547 Star 3,547 Fork 402 colszowka/simplecov Code Issues 59 Pull requests 10 Projects 0 Insights Add description to Rubocop cops #704 Open vbrazo wants to merge 2 commits into colszowka:master base: master from vbrazo:chores/add-description-to-rubocop-cops +29 −0 Conversation 0 Commits 2 Checks 0 Files changed 1 Conversation Reviewers deivid-rodriguez Assignees No one assigned Labels None yet Projects None yet Milestone No milestone Notifications Subscribe You’re not receiving notifications from this thread. 2 participants Pick your reaction 👍 👎 😄 🎉 😕 ❤️ Copy link Quote reply vbrazo commented Nov 11, 2018 I just added the descriptions to help us understand the cops in an easier way. vbrazo added some commits Nov 11, 2018 Add description to Rubocop cops Loading status checks… e6bc1fb Update .rubocop.yml Verified This commit was created on GitHub.com and signed with a verified signature using GitHub’s key. GPG key ID: 4AEE18F83AFDEB23 Learn about signing commits Loading status checks… 68acf73 deivid-rodriguez approved these changes Nov 13, 2018 View changes Merge state Hide all checks Show all checks All checks have passed 1 successful check continuous-integration/travis-ci/pr — The Travis CI build passed Details This branch has no conflicts with the base branch Only those with write access to this repository can merge pull requests. This branch has no conflicts with the base branch when rebasing Only those with write access to this repository can merge pull requests. Try again Couldn’t update branch Oops, something went wrong. Select a reply ctrl . Write Preview There was an error creating your PullRequest. Attach files by dragging & dropping, selecting them, or pasting from the clipboard. Uploading your files… We don’t support that file type. Try again with a GIF, JPEG, JPG, PNG, DOCX, GZ, LOG, PDF, PPTX, TXT, XLSX or ZIP. Attaching documents requires write permission to this repository. Try again with a GIF, JPEG, JPG, PNG, DOCX, GZ, LOG, PDF, PPTX, TXT, XLSX or ZIP. We don’t support that file type. Try again with a GIF, JPEG, JPG, PNG, DOCX, GZ, LOG, PDF, PPTX, TXT, XLSX or ZIP. Yowza, that’s a big file Try again with a file smaller than 10MB. This file is empty. Try again with a file that’s not empty. This file is hidden. Try again with another file. Something went really wrong, and we can’t process that file. Try again. Nothing to preview Styling with Markdown is supported Comment ProTip! Add comments to specific lines under Files changed. Add this suggestion to a batch that can be applied as a single commit. This suggestion is invalid because no changes were made to the code. Suggestions cannot be applied while the pull request is closed. Suggestions cannot be applied while viewing a subset of changes. Only one suggestion per line can be applied in a batch. Add this suggestion to a batch that can be applied as a single commit. Applying suggestions on deleted lines is not supported. You must change the existing code in this line in order to create a valid suggestion. Outdated suggestions cannot be applied. This suggestion has been applied or marked resolved. Suggestions cannot be applied from pending reviews. © 2018 GitHub, Inc. Terms Privacy Security Status Help Contact GitHub Pricing API Training Blog About You can’t perform that action at this time. You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Press h to open a hovercard with more details.
