ADDRESS | meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary ADDRESS | meaning in the Cambridge English Dictionary Cambridge dictionaries logo Cambridge Dictionary Dictionary Definitions English Learner’s Dictionary Essential British English Essential American English Translations Bilinguals English–Spanish Spanish–English English–French French–English English–German German–English English–Indonesian Indonesian–English English–Italian Italian–English English–Polish Polish–English English–Portuguese Portuguese–English English–Japanese Japanese–English Semi-bilingual Dutch–English English–Arabic English–Catalan English–Chinese (Simplified) English–Chinese (Traditional) English–Czech English–Danish English–Korean English–Malay English–Norwegian English–Russian English–Thai English–Turkish English–Vietnamese Translate Grammar Log in English (UK) English (UK) English (US) Español Español (Latinoamérica) Русский Português Deutsch Français Italiano 中文 (简体) 正體中文 (繁體) Polski 한국어 Türkçe 日本語 Tiếng Việt Follow us Log in English (UK) English (UK) English (US) Español Español (Latinoamérica) Русский Português Deutsch Français Italiano 中文 (简体) 正體中文 (繁體) Polski 한국어 Türkçe 日本語 Tiếng Việt Menu Cambridge Dictionary Dictionary Translate Grammar Back to home page Search Term Search Recent and Recommended Definitions and Grammar Clear explanations of natural written and spoken English English Learner’s Dictionary Essential British English Essential American English Grammar Translation Bilingual Dictionaries Click on the arrows to change the translation direction. English–Spanish Spanish–English English–French French–English English–German German–English English–Indonesian Indonesian–English English–Italian Italian–English English–Polish Polish–English English–Portuguese Portuguese–English English–Japanese Japanese–English Semi-bilingual Dictionaries Dutch–English English–Arabic English–Catalan English–Chinese (Simplified) English–Chinese (Traditional) English–Czech English–Danish English–Korean English–Malay English–Norwegian English–Russian English–Thai English–Turkish English–Vietnamese Meaning of “address” in the English Dictionary English English American Business Examples Collocations Contents Contents noun (3) address (HOME DETAILS) address (COMPUTERS) address (SPEECH) verb (3) address (SPEAK TO) address (DEAL WITH) address (WRITE DETAILS) English American Business Examples Collocations "address" in English See all translations address noun [ C ] uk /əˈdres/ us /ˈæd.res/ address noun [ C ] (HOME DETAILS) A1 the number of the house, name of the road, and name of the town where a person lives or works, and where letters can be sent: her business/home address a change of address More examples Any further correspondence should be sent to my new address. Please send the articles to the address given above. Her new address is 12 Warwickshire Mansions. He hasn't written to me recently - perhaps he's lost my address. Please print your name and address in block capitals. Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Communications - the postal system certified mail consignee delivery direct mail express letterbox mail mail slot mailbag mass mailing p. and p. pillar box pin code postmaster shipping and handling snail mail stamp surface mail window zip code See more results » You can also find related words, phrases, and synonyms in the topics: Home address noun [ C ] (COMPUTERS) A1 a series of letters and symbols that tell you where to find something on the internet or show where an email is sent to: What's your email address? Do you have their Web address? › specialized computing the place where a piece of information is stored in a computer's memory Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Computer concepts 3-D printing aeroplane mode airplane mode artificial intelligence atomicity augmented reality CGI documentation electronic publishing migrate mouse OCR omnidirectional P2P pebibyte peer-to-peer petabyte pull-down menu readable wallpaper See more results » address noun [ C ] (SPEECH) › a formal speech: She gave an address to the Royal Academy. Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Lecturing & addressing ad lib discourse filibuster floor hold hold forth lead 1 lead off lecture maiden speech oration oratory pontificate PowerPoint presentation sermonize speak speaking speechify talk at sb See more results » address verb [ T ] uk /əˈdres/ us /əˈdres/ address verb [ T ] (SPEAK TO) C2 formal to speak or write to someone: He addressed a few introductory remarks to the audience. He likes to be addressed as "Sir" or "Mr Partridge". More examples She stood up to address a hushed courtroom. It's incorrect to address people by their first names at these formal events. He stepped out onto the balcony to address the multitude below. Kindly address your remarks to the bench, Mr Smith. All questions should be addressed to the chair. Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Lecturing & addressing ad lib discourse filibuster floor hold hold forth lead 1 lead off lecture maiden speech oration oratory pontificate PowerPoint presentation sermonize speak speaking speechify talk at sb See more results » address verb [ T ] (DEAL WITH) C1 to give attention to or deal with a matter or problem: The issue of funding has yet to be addressed. More examples They are guilty of a cowardly failure to address the problem. Her speech was full of excuses and evasions and never properly addressed the issue. As employers we need to be seen to be addressing these issues sympathetically. The government has to address the rise in violent crime. Airports are trying to address security concerns without causing inconvenience to passengers. Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Dealing with things or people attend to sb/sth be all over it idiom beard the lion (in his/her den) idiom come up against sth come/get to grips with sth idiom cut firefight firefighting get sth in hold on ill-prepared inherit jump-start overcome people skills process reckon with sb/sth turn weather weather the storm idiom See more results » address verb [ T ] (WRITE DETAILS) C2 to write a name or address on an envelope or parcel: The parcel was wrongly addressed. So why did you open a letter that was addressed to me? Thesaurus: synonyms and related words Delivering and despatching air drop air-dash airlift consign containerize despatch despatcher drop fire sth off forward readdress redirect remit reroute route ship shoot sth off teleport trot sb out truck See more results » (Definition of “address” from the Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press) American English American Business Examples Collocations Contents Contents noun (2) address (PLACE) address (SPEAK TO) verb (3) address (SPEAK TO) address (DEAL WITH) address (PLACE) English American Business Examples Collocations "address" in American English See all translations address noun [ C ] us /əˈdres, ˈæd·res/ address noun [ C ] (PLACE) › the specific place where a person, business, or organization can be found and where mail can be received: What is your street address now? I need your home and your business address. › An address is also a group of letters or numbers and an @ symbol used to send electronic mail to someone: My e-mail address is pjh17@cambridge.org. address noun [ C ] (SPEAK TO) › a formal speech: The graduation address was very dull. address verb [ T ] us /əˈdres/ address verb [ T ] (SPEAK TO) › to speak or write to someone, or to direct information to someone: The First Lady addressed the meeting briefly. He was generally addressed as “Captain.” address verb [ T ] (DEAL WITH) › to give attention to or to deal with a matter or problem: We’ll address that question at the next meeting. address verb [ T ] (PLACE) › to write or print the specific place where a person, business, or organization can be found on something to be sent there: I addressed envelopes all morning. (Definition of “address” from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press) Business English American Business Examples Collocations Contents Contents noun (5) address (1) address (2) address (3) address (4) address (5) verb (4) address (1) address (2) address (3) address (4) English American Business Examples Collocations "address" in Business English See all translations address noun [ C ] uk /əˈdres/ us /ˈædres/ › a building number, name of the road, etc. where you live, where an organization has an office, or where mail is sent: Please send your application to the address below. What is your full address? a business/home address Taxpayers who have moved should make certain they file a change of address with the U.S. Postal Service. See also accommodation address forwarding address › also email address the words and symbols that you type in order to send an email to a particular person. It usually consists of a person's name, an @ sign, the name of a company or school, and sometimes an abbreviation for a country: I sent the email to the wrong address. What's your email address? › also web address INTERNET the words and symbols that you type to look at a particular website: How much web information could be captured: just the overall address or a list of each document viewed? › IT → memory address › COMMUNICATIONS a formal speech: in an address to sb/sth 'I can only see continued growth ahead of us,' the Chairman said in an address to analysts and money managers. See also accommodation address forwarding address address verb [ T ] uk /əˈdres/ us › [ usually passive ] to write an address on an envelope or package so it can be sent to the person who has that address: be addressed to sb/sth Make sure that your package is addressed to the correct department. a stamped addressed envelope › to speak to a group of people, especially in a meeting or formal event: He addressed a group of forty industrialists and politicians. › to speak to someone in a particular way or using a particular name: address sb as sth She addressed him as Mr Clifford. › to deal with a particular problem or need: It is time to address the budget deficit. address a problem/issue How does the organization address the problems identified? address a need He was impressed with the business plan because it addressed a real need. (Definition of “address” from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press) Examples English American Business Examples Collocations English American Business Examples Collocations Examples of “address” These examples are from the Cambridge English Corpus and from sources on the web. Any opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors. Very few of these studies actually address the distinction between planning and control. From Cambridge English Corpus The reports include an executive summary that facilitates a quick and comprehensive understanding of the key points addressed by the report. From Cambridge English Corpus Philosophical arguments address one of the most fundamental yet elusive questions facing behavioral scientists, namely, what constitutes a disorder? From Cambridge English Corpus The initial measures addressed sociodemographic variables, psychological\psychiatric problems and social disability. From Cambridge English Corpus Longterm exclosure plots currently capturing and protecting seeds falling into the crab-zone will help address this uncertainty. From Cambridge English Corpus It was first returned because it had been drafted by counsel; government could only be addressed by principals, not their agents. From Cambridge English Corpus It will be important for future work to continue to address these issues by attempting to differentiate lexical from phonological representations. From Cambridge English Corpus The question of how these gradient patterns are grammatically represented and integrated with the rest of the phonological system is not addressed. From Cambridge English Corpus The chapter on data processing addresses these issues with a detailed discussion of the issues surrounding spot quantitation and data normalization. From Cambridge English Corpus This allows students to address important issues surrounding relations between theory and experience. From Cambridge English Corpus This paper addresses the technical challenges of implementing a producibility analysis tool. From Cambridge English Corpus In particular, we must address the situation where we recursively call a tabled subgoal before we have fully tabled all its answers. From Cambridge English Corpus The biological basis and pathophysiology of negative symptoms are also addressed. From Cambridge English Corpus The first point to address, then, is whether the findings of variationist sociolinguistics are indeed compatible with such a model. From Cambridge English Corpus Every centre was encouraged to strengthen its social science research, to address particular themes and overall staff numbers. From Cambridge English Corpus Collocations English American Business Examples Collocations English American Business Examples Collocations Collocations with “address” These are words often used in combination with address. Click on a collocation to see more examples of it. These examples are from the Cambridge English Corpus and from sources on the web. Any opinions in the examples do not represent the opinion of the Cambridge Dictionary editors or of Cambridge University Press or its licensors. address bar The stop reload and go buttons have been combined into a single button, placed on the right side of the address bar. From Wikipedia address register There is thus no reason not to address register variation in grammatical description and theory, and every reason to do so. From Cambridge English Corpus address translation Moving the old stack's contents can, in theory, be achieved by adjusting the virtual-to-physical address translation tables. From Cambridge English Corpus See all collocations with address Translations of “address” in Chinese (Traditional) in Japanese in French in Catalan in Arabic in Czech in Danish in Indonesian in Thai in Vietnamese in Polish in Malay in Turkish in Norwegian in German in Korean in Portuguese in Italian in Russian in Chinese (Simplified) in Spanish 家庭詳細資料, 地址, 住址… 住所, 電子メール（Eメール）アドレス, ～に宛て先を書く… adresse, discours, adresser… adreça, posar l’adreça a, abordar… عُنوان, عُنوان البَريد الإلِكتْروني, يُعَنوِن… napsat adresu, adresovat, určit… adressere, rette (mine) ord, henvende (mig) til… pidato, alamat… สุนทรพจน์, ที่อยู่อีเมล, ที่อยู่เว็บไซต์… bài diễn văn, địa chỉ… adres, wystąpienie, orędzie… ucapan, alamat… adres, internet adresi, resmi konuşma… adresse, tale, adressere… adressieren, richten (an), die Adresse… 주소, (이메일)주소, -(이름) 앞으로 우편을 보내다… endereço, endereçar, enfrentar… indirizzo, indirizzo (di posta elettronica, sito web)… адрес, речь, обращение… 家庭详细资料, 地址, 住址… discurso, alocución, Direccion… Need a translator? Translator tool Get a quick, free translation! What is the pronunciation of address? Browse additivity addle addled addling address address book address space addressed addressee My Dictionary Create and share your own word lists and quizzes for free! Sign up now Log in Contents noun (3) address (HOME DETAILS) address (COMPUTERS) address (SPEECH) verb (3) address (SPEAK TO) address (DEAL WITH) address (WRITE DETAILS) More meanings of “address” All Idioms forwarding address IP address web address address book address space email address home address See all meanings be of/have no fixed abode/address idiom See all idiom meanings Word of the Day doodle to draw pictures or patterns while thinking about something else or when you are bored About this Blog The People’s Word of 2018 November 29, 2018 Read More New Words daycation noun November 26, 2018 More new words Get our free widgets Add the power of Cambridge Dictionary to your website using our free search box widgets. Dictionary apps Browse our dictionary apps today and ensure you are never again lost for words. Learn Learn New Words Help In Print Develop Develop Dictionary API Double-Click Lookup Search Widgets License Data About About Accessibility Cambridge English Cambridge University Press Cookies and Privacy Corpus Terms of Use 2.34 m Likes 172 k Followers 15.0 k Fans © Cambridge University Press 2018
