Address Synonyms, Address Antonyms | Thesaurus.com Thesaurus.com Word of the Day Crossword Solver Everything After Z Dictionary.com Dictionary.com Thesaurus.comTry Our Apps synonymsSearch definitions address see definition of address nounplace of residence or business where one can be contacted nounspeech given to formal gathering verbwrite directions for delivery verbspeak to a formal gathering verbdevote effort to something Relevance ranks synonyms and suggests the best matches based on how closely a synonym’s sense matches the sense you selected.Relevance A-Z Length - + Synonyms for addressnoun place of residence or business where one can be contacted ZIP code home location number abode direction domicile dwelling headquarters house lodging street whereabouts box number living quarters place of business place of residence Explore Dictionary.com the 2018 Word of the Year is... Avoid these words. Seriously The Oldest Words in English What's the Word for how it Smells After it Rains? More words related to address abode noun. building or place where one resides address apartment base casa co-op condo crash pad crib den digs domicile dwelling flat flop habitat haunt headquarters hearth hole home homestead house joint lodging pad quarters residence roost sanctuary seat accost verb. approach for conversation or solicitation address annoy bother brace buttonhole call challenge confront cross dare entice face flag greet hail proposition run into salute welcome whistle for accosted verb. approach for conversation or solicitation address annoy bother brace buttonhole call challenge confront cross dare entice face flag greet hail proposition run into salute welcome whistle for accosts verb. approach for conversation or solicitation address annoy bother brace buttonhole call challenge confront cross dare entice face flag greet hail proposition run into salute welcome whistle for acknowledge verb. verbally recognize receipt of something address answer greet hail notice react remark reply respond return salute thank acknowledges verb. verbally recognize receipt of something address answer greet hail notice react remark reply respond return salute thank Roget's 21st Century Thesaurus, Third Edition Copyright © 2013 by the Philip Lief Group. PREVIOUS 1 2 3 4 5 21 NEXT Word Origin & History early 14c., "to guide or direct," from Old French adrecier "go straight toward; straighten, set right; point, direct" (13c.), from Vulgar Latin *addirectiare "make straight," from Latin ad "to" (see ad-) + *directiare, from Latin directus "straight, direct" (see direct (v.)). Late 14c. as "to set in order, repair, correct." Meaning "to write as a destination on a written message" is from mid-15c. Meaning "to direct spoken words (to someone)" is from late 15c. Related: Addressed; addressing. Show More Example Sentences for address Billy, go up to the address he gives you, and get some of these se-gars. "This is my address," said the merchant, writing it in pencil, and handing it to Robert. Mr. Randell, the Chairman of the Perth Municipality, read an address of welcome. The address to the crowd at the Capitol was broadcast on a loudspeaker. You may say, that I will do every thing they would have me do, if they will free me from Mr. Solmes's address. He concluded by formally moving the presentation of the address to the Queen. But I concluded the mistake lay in the person; and that his address was to Miss Arabella. The execution is left entirely to your judgment and address. I think I have a clue by which his address may be ascertained. His conceptions also are sometimes absurd; for instance, the Address to Light. Show More Browse the Thesaurus: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Browse by Category: Slang Emoji Acronyms Pop Culture More About | Cookies, Terms, & Privacy © 2018 Dictionary.com, LLC .
