Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter Source: ChinaAid Date: May 15, 2018 ChinaAid reports that, in the past weeks, law enforcement officers harassed two Beijing house churches – Holy Love Fellowship and another church that chose to remain anonymous. Authorities pressured the landlords of the churches’ buildings to revoke their leases. On May 6, a team of several dozen officers of the Xicheng District Public Security Bureau came to the anonymous church’s service, took pictures and investigated the proceedings. Later that week, the police forbade the church from organizing religious activities in any form. They forced the landlord of the building, also a Christian, to sign a letter revoking his participation in any religious activities. An elder from Holy Love Fellowship informed ChinaAid that the police frequently pressure the believers in the church, thus, constantly violating their freedom of religion. Due to the mounting pressure on landlords, believers can only gather at their own houses, since it is becoming harder to rent buildings and organize larger religious events there. Tagged With: China Aid, Holy Love Fellowship, House Churches Related articles Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools House Church Christians Sentenced Under the False Accuse of Being Members of the Three Grades of Servants Who Is Afraid of Bitter Winter? Christians Arrested for Distributing Religious Materials in Sichuan Province Read more Harassed for Signing Statement Against Authorities The Joint Statement that over 450 pastors, ministers, and elders signed. The G... CCP and House Churches in a Cat and Mouse Game Since house churches have come up with several ingenious ways to evade persecu... After Henan, Authorities Zero in on Anhui (VIDEO) The province in the east of China is home to the second-largest population of Ch... Pressured by China, Myanmar Deports Chinese Missionaries Wa State Over 20 schools set up by Chinese missionaries in Myanmar’s Wa State ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
