Authorities in Shandong Investigate Christian Churches | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Authorities in Shandong Investigate Christian Churches Authorities in Shandong Investigate Christian Churches 05/08/2018 Bitter Winter Source: ChinaAid Date: May 8, 2018 ChinaAid reports that Authorities in eastern Shandong province used anti-pornography and illegal publications campaign to investigate local Christian churches and inspect religious materials distributed there. In addition, teachers were instructed to report on students’ religious beliefs. Local law enforcement officials, together with representatives from the ethnic and religious affairs bureau, confiscated over 1000 copies of allegedly “illegal” publications from Christian churches, such as Hongshan church, Xingguo church in Yishan, and Wanzhao church. Province’s Ministry of Education and religious affairs bureau ordered elementary school teachers to fill out forms and questionnaires about religious beliefs of teachers and students, as well as on the activities of Christian missionaries in their schools. Tagged With: China Aid, Christian Churches Related articles Christians Arrested for Distributing Religious Materials in Sichuan Province Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords China Launches a Special Campaign to Crack Down on South Korean Christian Groups Read more Manipulated Into Agreeing to Demolish Their Church The notice of demolition for Yangzhai Church. After a sequence of well-planned... Shutdowns of House Churches Continue (Video) Churches that are not directly controlled by the Chinese Communist P... China Aid Launches Petition to Free Pastor John Cao Notice of criminal detention of John Cao The pastor, whose wife is American,... Official Document Reveals the Campaign to Demolish Crosses Source: Direct Reports from China Date: June 30, 2018 Fifty-one crosses have... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
