bash - How to run java command as root? - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Log In Sign Up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Jobs Teams+Slack Q&A for work Learn More How to run java command as root? Ask Question up vote 0 down vote favorite I get the infamous error "Could not find or load main class..." when I am trying to run java command as root. I tried this solution without any success. which java returns /usr/bin/java so I tried appending at ˜/.bashrc export PATH=$PATH:/usr/bin/java or export PATH=$PATH:/usr/bin, again... without success. ps: I want to run as root because I've created a simple server using sockets and I want to ping it with an android app. The problem is that I am getting permission denied. java bash root share|improve this question asked 16 mins ago Skemelio 52112 Nope @Krease... – Skemelio 12 mins ago 1 Check if the $CLASSPATH is still set, when you change your uid to root. – Maksim 11 mins ago 1 Actually, maybe it's because the program does not match the root's directory. Maybe I have to compile as root as well. – Skemelio 11 mins ago 1 Wait -- "could not find or load main class" - java itself is working, but it can't find the classes you're telling it to run. You need to specify the classpath. java -cp . com.foo.MyMainClass (or if needed, replace . with the fully qualified path) – Krease 7 mins ago 1 Please edit your question to show where (what directory) the classes you want to run are stored, what specific java command you're running, and what is your working directory when you run it. – Kenster 5 mins ago | show 5 more comments active oldest votes Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Google+, Twitter, or Facebook. Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Browse other questions tagged java bash root or ask your own question. asked today viewed 20 times Related 5595Is Java “pass-by-reference” or “pass-by-value”? 2685How to efficiently iterate over each entry in a Java Map? 1281Fastest way to determine if an integer's square root is an integer 3413How to read / convert an InputStream into a String in Java? 2672When to use LinkedList over ArrayList in Java? 3031How to generate random integers within a specific range in Java? 1690How to check if a program exists from a Bash script? 2675How do I tell if a regular file does not exist in Bash? 2654How do I convert a String to an int in Java? 2775Creating a memory leak with Java Hot Network Questions Carlsen-Caruana Game 12 "Pregnant" as a taboo word Did the founding members of the Black Panthers ever mention the role of Malcolm X in creating their group? What is it called when authors trade citations? What is the origin of the phrase ‘orc and pie’? Why don't commercial airplanes carry Earth observing instruments? Finding cheap quality steak for grill Getting a tax return as a dependent student Invitation for a Manuscript Review How is the CG of rocket found after the complete assembly Delete duplicate lines, with partial match Count appearances of a value until it changes to another value Why are ground pours isolated from each other on the top layer? < noclue > what does that mean? </ noclue > A Compound word full of words How can I alter the appearance of my face at will as a Warlock? What logical fallacy is "If you don't like it, move!"? Purpose of cp -x (stay on file system)? I lost my closet key, how to open it? Draw a line not touching edges OllyDbg vs x64dbg - Is there anything in OllyDbg that is not available in x64dbg? Kernels and cokernels of multicomplex homomorphisms How to react professionally when a colleague comes to work with a black eye? How to avoid ambiguity in a sentence like this? more hot questions question feed default Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Engagement Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.11.29.32286 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled
