Better Code Hub · GitHub Marketplace Skip to content Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ No suggested jump to results Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ Pull requests Issues Marketplace Explore New repository Import repository New gist New organization Bricking Signed in as Bricking Your profile Your repositories Your stars Your gists Help Settings Sign out Sign out Sign out Marketplace Better Code Hub Better Code Hub Set up a free trial Categories Code quality Supported languages C#, Go, Java and 7 other languages supported Developer links Support Status Documentation Privacy Policy Terms of Service Spend less time fixing bugs. And more time shipping new features. A clean codebase keeps development velocity high and makes it easy for developers to start contributing. Better Code Hub indicates just the right amount of refactoring needed to keep it compliant. Better Code Hub checks your code for compliance against 10 benchmarked software engineering guidelines. It gives immediate feedback on where to focus for quality improvements. 17 modern programming languages are supported. Read more... You get: A Definition of Done for code quality When it comes to writing code, we all know there’s a point where the extra effort isn’t worth the added value. Better Code Hub tells you when you’re there. You can be confident you're refactoring the right code. Immediate feedback on your code base & every commit Better Code Hub checks your code against 10 software engineering guidelines. You’ll get results within minutes to see how you’re performing. There’s zero setup time. And no need to configure any thresholds. Simply toggle a switch to have it run at every Push & Pull Request in your CI/CD pipeline. Prioritized action items (no flood of violations!) Better Code Hub doesn’t overwhelm you with violations. Instead, it gives prioritized action items  where your code base isn’t compliant  —  like units (e.g. Java methods), modules (e.g. Java classes), or components (e.g. Java packages) which should be refactored to improve your overall score. Repository quality report All done for this guildeline Prioritized list of refactoring candidates Code snippet of a guideline violation Architecture metrics based on call resolving Pricing and setup Free For open source and non-commercial use $0 Individual Free Trial For personal accounts only $9 / month $90 / year Pro Free Trial For organizational accounts $20 per user / month $200 per user / year Better Code Hub Individual For personal accounts only For personal accounts only Unlimited private individual repos Up to 200,000 lines of code per repo 17 popular programming languages Spend less time fixing bugs and more time shipping new features. $9 / month $90 / year Try free for 14 days Next: Confirm your installation location and payment information. Better Code Hub is provided by a third-party and is governed by separate terms, privacy policy, and support contact. © 2018 GitHub, Inc. Terms Privacy Security Status Help Contact GitHub Pricing API Training Blog About You can’t perform that action at this time. You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Press h to open a hovercard with more details.
