british columbia - What are consequences for defendant failing to meet orders of civil court? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered What are consequences for defendant failing to meet orders of civil court? Ask Question up vote 2 down vote favorite I read that a civil court judge may order that a defendant, for example, pay damages; or, another example, provide particulars relevant to the pre-trial pleadings. But what if they don't comply? What are the consequences for ignoring the orders of the court in the context of a civil trial? (I live in British Columbia and I'm trying to understand BC Supreme Court procedure.) civil-law british-columbia civil-procedure civil-judgment share|improve this question edited May 21 '16 at 14:50 Zizouz212 2,2311432 asked Jan 30 '16 at 21:13 Mavaddat Javid 597 add a comment | 3 Answers 3 active oldest votes up vote 2 down vote accepted In the United States (and probably any common law country) a judge may find a person in criminal or civil contempt of court. One is in contempt of court if they refuse to follow the orders of the court. If one thinks the orders are wrong or improper the proper remedy is to ask for a stay of the order or file an emergency appeal and hope for a stay there. If no stay is received comply with the order until the appeal is heard. If we assume one does not follow the orders of a civil court, then that person will most likely be found in contempt of court. Originally this person will most likely receive a civil contempt charge, which will result in fines every single day the person is not in compliance with the order of the court. The [BC Supreme Court rules at 22-7][1] defines the parameters for failure to comply with court orders. At rule 22-8, it states that a person may be apprehended if they are found in contempt: (4)A person who is guilty of an act or omission described in Rule 12-5 (25) or 22-7 (5), in addition to being subject to any consequences prescribed by those rules, is guilty of contempt of court and subject to the court's power to punish contempt of court. (5)If the court is of the opinion that a person may be guilty of contempt of court, it may order, by warrant in Form 115 directed to a sheriff or other officer of the court or to a peace officer, that the person be apprehended and brought before the court. As an alternative type of sanction for civil contempt, the court can also have the person jailed until they comply with the order. In the United States, there is generally no limit on how long you can be jailed for civil contempt (the record is 14 years), and you have substantially lower due process protections (for instance, you don't have a right to a jury); both of those are because you can free yourself at any time by simply complying with the order. The court can also impose criminal contempt sanctions. Civil contempt is to get you to obey the order; criminal contempt is to punish you for disobeying. Criminal contempt sanctions are unconditional; it's a crime like other crimes, and a criminal sentence looks like "$50,000 fine" or "30 days in jail" rather than "$1,000 per day until you obey the order" or "jail until you obey the order." [1]: http://www.bclaws.ca/civix/document/LOC/complete/statreg/--%20C%20--/Court%20Rules%20Act%20[RSBC%201996]%20c.%2080/05_Regulations/17_168_2009%20-%20Supreme%20Court%20Civil%20Rules/168_2009_03.xml#rule22-7 BC Supreme Court rules, rule 22-7 share|improve this answer edited Feb 1 '16 at 1:05 jimsug♦ 9,57662365 answered Jan 30 '16 at 21:34 Viktor 1,9641625 See more here: en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contempt_of_court – Viktor Jan 30 '16 at 21:38 1 Imprisoning you until you comply is still civil contempt. The civil/criminal distinction isn't fines/imprisonment; it's coercing you to comply vs. punishing you for disobeying. A fine for a fixed amount (as opposed to per day, or compensating the other side for damages) is criminal; imprisonment as long as you refuse is civil, and it only becomes criminal if it's for a fixed time period. – cpast Jan 30 '16 at 22:04 "Both of those are because you can free yourself at any time by simply complying with the order." From the court's point of view, that is. In the 14 year case you mentioned, the party in question was ordered to pay some money. His claim was that he didn't have the money and therefore it was not possible for him to comply. Obviously the court did not believe him. – Nate Eldredge Jan 31 '16 at 1:51 1 Viktor, I added a suggested edit to refer to the specific BC Supreme Court rules on non compliance. bclaws.ca/civix/document/LOC/complete/statreg/--%20C%20--/… – Mavaddat Javid Jan 31 '16 at 18:04 add a comment | up vote 2 down vote Failing to comply with a court order is contempt; other answers have dealt with this. If the order creates a debt then the beneficiary of that order can take various methods to have the debt satisfied including getting orders to: seize and sell physical property obtain a lien over real property garnishee bank accounts garnishee wages or other income wind up a company have an individual declared bankrupt share|improve this answer answered Jan 31 '16 at 1:30 Dale M 48.8k12769 Thank you for the information. I realise (or understand) that I need to search the BC Supreme Court rules for the keyword "contempt" to see how the BC superior court handles intransigent disobedience to its orders. – Mavaddat Javid Jan 31 '16 at 3:06 add a comment | up vote 0 down vote In addition to the other two answers (which are certainly correct), you should probably check the civil code for possible sanctions specific to this failure. For example, if a party fails to comply with an order to give particulars of a pleading, it is common that the opponent can apply to have that pleading struck out (and presumably judgment entered against the defaulter). share|improve this answer answered Dec 3 '16 at 16:19 Tim Lymington 2,5041426 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged civil-law british-columbia civil-procedure civil-judgment or ask your own question. asked 2 years, 10 months ago viewed 1,081 times active 2 years ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 1Prosecutorial discretion and jurisdiction 3For an appellate court, how does 'burden of proof' differ from 'standard of review'? 4In English civil trial practice when does a barrister become involved? 1Under English law, what limitations apply to arbitration of civil disputes? 1Where can I get example injunctions for inclusion in a pleading? 0What are the consequences of failing to pay a citation for expired vehicle registration in Washington? 0Do judges in Massachusetts always have original jurisdiction even in “trials by jury”? 2Statutory Basis for Screening Order 2Can a real-life example be used to describe the difference between common and civil law? 2Can a pro se plaintiff call the defendant as a witness and compel testimony in a civil suit? Hot Network Questions Are there any publically available recordings of conversations between ATC and pilots? Viva voce question about another student "validating" my results If 2 Ensnaring Strikes affect the same target, does it have to make 2 saves to be unrestrained? Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? Mutually invisible foes. How can they fight? Latin usage & perfect passive finite verb forms How high can a PC's initiative bonus get? Is it possible to access the email of a Lead's owner directly? Blind Person Ball Game Does LPPL allow package development with pull requests etc.? Why does typing an IP address instead of the corresponding domain name not show the website? As a course lecturer, should I excuse late assignment submissions if I wrote the assignment deadline slightly wrong? If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] Dynamically Cast Map<String, SObject> To Specific SObject Is Ubuntu compatible with laptops that have touch screen features? Is a solar system around a black hole possible? How can i measure weight of my cat? Is there a term for "the user can't use anything wrong" design? Understanding "jam nunc" Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? Why would an attacker ever want to sit on a zero-day exploit? What are the ethical concerns of giving a notice period to an incompetent employee when it’s not required by contract? Is asking your PhD instructor a basic question considered inappropriate? Difference between "I know where I stand" and "I know my place" and their interchangeability more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
