canada - Is there a cause of action if a contest sponsor leaked my personal information? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Is there a cause of action if a contest sponsor leaked my personal information? Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite I entered into a free contest in Canada but I did not win. But when I searched for my own email address, I found a public Google docs that contains the address, date of birth, email, name, and phone number of around 79,000 entrants. Clearly this is wrong and unreasonable - no organization should be negligent like this. Thus what can I do? How do I tell all these other people of this breach of privacy? I have taken a screenshot of this Google doc. canada privacy civil-law class-action share|improve this question edited Oct 16 '15 at 16:34 feetwet♦ 14.3k93991 asked Oct 16 '15 at 15:04 Pauline Ercute 235 3 Can you review the terms of the contest? You may have given them permission to use that information in that way. – feetwet♦ Oct 16 '15 at 16:33 Also, does this Q&A answer your question? – feetwet♦ Oct 16 '15 at 16:35 Phone the office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada. They're called public servants for a reason, make them do their job and serve you. – user900 Oct 21 '15 at 12:07 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 1 down vote In Australia, email addresses, like street addresses are not personal information and are not protected by the Privacy Act (which doesn't cover all businesses in any event) share|improve this answer answered Oct 17 '15 at 3:02 Dale M 48.8k12769 Would the date of birth in conjunction with name and physical address change that though? I know some companies use that as verification when you need a password reset. – ColleenV Nov 16 '15 at 16:26 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged canada privacy civil-law class-action or ask your own question. asked 3 years, 1 month ago viewed 63 times active 3 years ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Linked 8 How do I convince google to take down this page which contains people's leaked e-mails and passwords? Related 5Is personal information of arrestees published publicly? 4Class action lawsuits and opting out 2Is a Unique Device Identifier personal information? 1In Canada, is there an individual cause of action against a perjurer or police? -1To what limit does personal information need to be deleted? 0Organization's prerogative to impose confidentiality of personal-business email 0Class action arbitration agreement 0How are excess class-action settlement funds disposed of? 0Is this information considered personal? -2Cannot get my writ in - Ordinary Cause Civil Action case - Sheriff Court, Scotland Hot Network Questions Does a smell imply particles or chemicals in the air? Customise voicemail message based on caller What is this pic rebus mean? Can women also go shirtless in public legally? Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? Why would an attacker ever want to sit on a zero-day exploit? Is the `std::exception`, in its current form, redundant? Given limited space and weight what should I carry to get a fire going with damp wood? MorphoPHONOLOGY Question Dropping lists using pattern What does a program do when it's sent SIGKILL signal? Proof of Approximate / Exact Bayesian Computation Do primary keys change when indexes are rebuilt or reorganized? Will listing my major GPA instead of my cumulative GPA on my resume cause problems? Does the algorithm of the Greeks produce all prime numbers? The Heisenberg Uncertainty Ray - A Hyper-Scanning Doomsday Weapon Mac or PC computer file Bencher in Hebrew and English Why do Republicans and others accept the propagandaic use of the term "Progressives"? laptop noisy sound - fan or hdd? How does Brownian motion prove the existence of atoms? Why is 2 * (i * i) faster than 2 * i * i in Java? Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? How to solder Christmas lights insulated wire? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
