CBC Windsor | Contact Us | CBC News Skip to Main Content CBCMenu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indspire Awards Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests news Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Windsor newsCBC Windsor | Contact Us CBC Windsor | Contact Us Welcome to CBC Windsor. Please contact us with story ideas and news tips. Thanks for reading, listening and watching. CBC News · Posted: Mar 01, 2017 2:06 PM ET | Last Updated: March 1, 2017 Contact CBC Windsor at 519-255-3456, or email us at windsor@cbc.ca. (Derek Spalding/CBC) Welcome to CBC Windsor. If you'd like to leave a news tip, you can do so easily by clicking here and filling out the form. You can also email us directly anytime at windsor@cbc.ca. If you need to reach us by phone, please call: 519-255-3456. If you would like to reach the digital team at cbc.ca/windsor, you can call 519-255-3563 or email windsor@cbc.ca. Our mailing address is: CBC Windsor Newsroom 825 Riverside Drive West N9A 5K9 CBC Radio programs in Windsor Windsor Morning TEL: (519) 255-3400 E-mail: windsormorning@cbc.ca Afternoon Drive TEL: 1-866-812-3624 E-mail: afternoondrive@cbc.ca Windsor at 6 TEL: (519) 255-3456 Email: windsor@cbc.ca Have a question about the CBC? We've answered the most common queries in our list of Frequently Asked Questions below. If you still can't find the answer you're looking for, please contact Audience Relations directly at 1-866-306-4636. How do I contact the local news departments with a news tip? Call CBC Windsor at 519-255-3456 or email our assignment desk. How do I suggest an idea or pose a question to a local show? Send an e-mail to the appropriate program. Contact information is listed above. How do I suggest an idea or pose a question to a national show? Go to Programs A-Z, look for the listing for that show, then follow the link to the website for that show. Look for the Contact Us section of the site. How can I find out the name of the song I just heard on CBC Radio? First, look up the program page of the radio program you were listening to. Then, look under the link Music Playlists on the right hand menu of that page under the date and time you were listening. Can I get transcripts and/or tapes of programs? You can purchase copies of local/national news or current affairs programs through Cision. Please note that prices and the length of time programs are kept varies. You can contact CISION at (416) 750-2220. How do I find out about jobs at the CBC? Click on Jobs at the bottom of any page on the CBC.ca site. I need help with audio and/or video. That information can be found on the Audio/Video help page here. I have a CD that I would like you to play. Where do I send it? Given the enormous volume of Canadian music produced and distributed, we cannot deal with unsolicited music submissions. If you feel your music would be appealing to CBC radio audiences, please contact shows directly. It is the job of show producers and hosts to acquire music for airplay and programme their lineups. To contact shows on CBC Radio 2, please Submit a Request to Audience Services; we'll pass your message on. CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC NewsReport Typo or Error|Send Feedback Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 FAQ Help Centre Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy CBC Shop Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Sitemap Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch. More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca
