Chinese Communist Party Uses Community Administrators to Collect Information on Believers | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Chinese Communist Party Uses Community Administrators to Collect Information on Believers Chinese Communist Party Uses Community Administrators to Collect Information on Believers 05/08/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 6, 2018 Recently, the Chinese government has divided local “grassroots” communities into a grid pattern, with each grid made up of 15 to 20 households, which are monitored by a designated person called the “grid administrator.” These persons must fully familiarize themselves with the residents of their grid – who lives there, their housing and facilities, membership in organizations, and place of work – as well as identify any possible hidden dangers. Bitter Winter has learned that the authorities make use of the “grid management” to inspect and register citizens’ faiths in order to strengthen the control over religious beliefs. One grid administrator who did not wish to give her name said that each village and community of her town has a dedicated grid administrator, and there are two grid administrators responsible for the whole town. After the new Regulation on Religious Affairs, adopted by the State Council of China, came into force in February this year, the grid administrators in charge of security and inspection of house church meetings in her town summoned all community grid administrators to a meeting. During the meeting, the town grid administrators called several forms of Christianity and The Church of Almighty God cults. They demanded that village grid administrators inspected each production team (formerly, a basic accounting and farm production unit, now most of them have been replaced by village groups) to find out believers in God and register their names. Grid administrators must also collect information on Buddhists and Christians from house churches and put them in blacklists that are saved in the system. A banner hanging on the wall, reading “Resolutely Guard Against Overseas Infiltrations via Religious Means.” A banner hanging on the wall, reading “Communist Party Members Cannot Participate in Religious Activities.” Tagged With: Catholicism in China, Church of Almighty God, Grid administrators, Regulation on Religious Affairs, State Council of China Related articles Believers Arrested From at Least 14 Cities in Jilin Minors Banned from Participating in Religious Activities in China Surveillance Cameras Installed in Christian Churches The New Religious Affairs Regulation Came into Force in 2018: What Exactly Happened? Read more Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... How Deeper Underground Can Underground Catholics Go? Refusing to join the government-controlled Chinese Patriotic Catholic Associat... Hebei Officials Compete in Eradication of Religion Sacred Heart Cathedral of Yangzhou (Credits: Vmenkov - CC BY-SA 3.0) An intern... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
