Chinese Government Officials: Demolishing Churches and Cracking Down on Christianity Is the Central Committee's Spirit | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Chinese Government Officials: Demolishing Churches and Cracking Down on Christianity Is the Central Committee’s Spirit Chinese Government Officials: Demolishing Churches and Cracking Down on Christianity Is the Central Committee’s Spirit 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 15, 2018 Henan is a province with a large Christian population in China. In 2018, it suffered the most severe religious persecution by the Chinese Communist Party: churches seized, crosses removed, minors banned from going to church — these events have been a common occurrence. Recently, informed sources told Bitter Winter that on April 20, 2018, local authorities destroyed the cross of Bo’ai Church, a Christian church located in Wangyoufang, Huangkou township, Yongcheng city, Henan province. At around 10 a.m., officials from Huangkou township government and Yongcheng city government came to Bo’ai Church to oversee the removal of the cross. Without the permission of the church director, the government workers instructed a 10-ton crane driver to remove the horizontal beam of the cross, leaving only the vertical beam to serve as a lightning rod. Later, they went into the building and smashed the church cross sign. The church manager questioned the government workers: “What’s wrong with our belief in God? Why are we not allowed to believe in God?” One of the workers replied rudely, “There is nothing wrong at all, but you are just not allowed to believe in God or attend meetings. You have such great faith in Jesus, why don’t you have faith in the Communist Party? Demolishing your church and cracking down on Christianity is the Central Committee’s spirit.” A worker from the township government revealed, “The township government stops at nothing to crack down on religious beliefs. It spent nearly 30,000 RMB on its removal of the cross of Bo’ai Church. ” Bo’ai Church, built in June 2014, boasts an area of approximately 4,000 square meters and was regarded as Asia’s largest village church by the local government. After the destruction of the cross, Bo’ai Church stopped hosting religious meetings. The local authorities in Henan forcibly destroyed the cross of Bo’ai Church. After the destruction of the cross of Bo’ai Church, only the vertical beam remains. A slogan painted on the exterior wall of Bo’ai Church, reading, “It is forbidden to preach to the minors at sites for religious activities.” Tagged With: Bo’ai Church, Chinese Communist Party, Christian Faith in China Related articles More Crosses Taken Down in Henan Fourth Anniversary of the Removal of the Wenling Christian Church Cross Town Government in Linzhou, Henan, Raids House Churches Authorities Threaten to Cut off Allowances of Elderly Christians Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Demolition of Temples Impacts Livelihood of Local People (Video) As part of the nationwide campaign, the Wuhan city authorities in Hubei Province... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
