Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches 05/22/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Radio Free Asia Date: May 22, 2018 Radio Free Asia reports about the escalating persecution of Protestant churches in China. Officials ordered a church in Jinxian County, Jiangxi Province to close down and a church in Nanping city in the southeastern province of Fujian to register with the government-approved Three-Self Patriotic Association of Protestant churches. In the port city of Xiamen, authorities shut down a kindergarten, which was built and fully funded by the Xunsiding church for the reason that the kindergarten hadn’t obtained the necessary approvals. Officials in the southern province of Guangdong, Luhe County near Shanwei city, ordered to shut down a home for the elderly set up and run by the Baishitang Church. Witnesses report that the city’s authorities sent 200-300 riot policemen to demolish the house and threatened the church’s leaders not to lodge any official complaints or hire a lawyer. Tagged With: Chinese Communist Party, Christian Churches, Three-Self Patriotic Movement Related articles Shutdowns of House Churches Continue (Video) When CCP Deployed Nearly 600 to Demolish a Church 1500 Believers Will Be Driven From Beijing Zion Church Party Slogans Instead of Crosses Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Demolition of Temples Impacts Livelihood of Local People (Video) As part of the nationwide campaign, the Wuhan city authorities in Hubei Province... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
