China Criticized at the United Nations' Human Rights Council | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / China Criticized at the United Nations’ Human Rights Council China Criticized at the United Nations’ Human Rights Council 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter Sources: International Service for Human Rights and direct information Date: May 1, 2018 Every five years, each member state of the United Nations comes before the Human Rights Council (HRC) in Geneva for its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) with respect to the human rights situation in the country. China’s UPR is scheduled for November 6, 2018. On March 7, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, introducing his office’s yearly report, criticized the human rights situation in China: “My Office continues to receive urgent appeals regarding arbitrary detentions, enforced disappearances, ill-treatment and discrimination, emanating from human rights defenders, lawyers, legislators, booksellers, and members of communities such as Tibetans and Uyghurs. Many of these cases involve people struggling against economic, social and cultural injustices, such as cases of corruption; illegal seizure of land and forced evictions; destruction of cultural sites; constraints on religious practices and restrictions on use of local languages. I look forward to resolving some of these issues with the Chinese Government as we move towards China’s UPR review in November.” Canada, the European Union, France, Germany and the United States also criticized China’s deteriorating human rights situation and lack of religious freedom. So did several NGOs speaking at the UNHRC’s 37th Session. The Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights reminded the UNHRC that “ten years ago almost to the day, an unprecedented wave of protests began in Tibet. Since then, China has intensified repression and imposed pervasive military and security controls on the plateau, in order to stifle any challenge to its rule. This has been combined with attacks on Tibetan identity and culture and gross human rights violations, both of civil and political rights, and of economic, social and cultural rights. But the continuing wave of self-immolations, with more than 153 Tibetans setting themselves on fire since 2009, is a clear evidence that Tibetans are still suffering from China’s disrespect for their fundamental rights and freedoms.” The Society for Threatened Peoples also denounced that “gross violations of human rights, including freedom of religion and belief in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and adjacent areas where Tibetans live are going on. The space for Tibetans to live with dignity and human values is shrinking. The State’s interference in religious affairs had reduced the free space for the practice of Tibetan Buddhism.” International Service for Human Rights and Human Rights Watch focused on “documented cases of harassment, arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment, and enforced disappearance of activists, lawyers, and others deemed a threat to the state.” The Coordination des associations et des particuliers pour la liberté de conscience called the attention of UNHRC on the continuing persecution of members of The Church of Almighty God, as well as China’s attempts to interfere in the cases where they seek recognition of refugee status in other countries. As usual, China rejected any criticism as “interference in its internal affairs,” and pointed out that human rights violations also occur in the United States and Europe. Tagged With: Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, Human Rights Council, Human Rights Watch, International Service for Human Rights, Society for Threatened Peoples, UNHRC Related articles Arbitrary Detention of Members of The Church of Almighty God Denounced at the United Nations Atrocities Against Uyghurs, Tibetans, CAG Denounced at the UN United Nations, Human Rights Council, 38th Session- Written Statement of the NGO CAP-LC on The Church of Almighty God United Nations, Human Rights Council: 37h Session-Written Statement of the NGO CAP-LC on The Church of Almighty God. Read more Arbitrary Detention of Members of The Church of Almighty God Denounced... Source: United Nations Website Date: June 14, 2018 At the Thirty-eight Sessi... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
