Chinese Government's Crackdown on Muslims in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Chinese Government’s Crackdown on Muslims in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region Chinese Government’s Crackdown on Muslims in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 05/18/2018 Bitter Winter Source: South China Morning Post Date: May 17, 2018 South China Morning Post reports about the Chinese Government’s campaign to rid the northwestern Ningxia Hui autonomous region of what it regards as a worrying trend of Islamisation and Arabisation. The clampdown is part of a push to “Sinicise religion” – a policy introduced by President Xi Jinping in 2015 to bring religions into line with Chinese culture and the absolute authority of the party. Throughout Ningxia, Islamic decor and Arabic signs are being taken off the streets and no new ‘Arab style’ mosques are allowed to be built. The Government plans to convert some of the existing mosques to look like Chinese temples. Calls to prayer are now banned in Yinchuan on the grounds of noise pollution, books on Islam and copies of the Koran have been taken off the shelves in souvenir shops, some mosques were forced to cancel public Arabic classes and a number of private Arabic schools have been told to shut down. Unease is growing among more than 10 million members of Hui community who are the descendants of Arab and Central Asian Silk Road traders. For decades, Hui Muslims have largely been left in peace to practice their faith. As the authorities tighten their grip in Ningxia, scholars are concerned that the region could soon be subject to the same repressive measures as the Uygur Muslims in Xinjiang. They fear that Beijing could be using Ningxia as a testing ground for its Xinjiang policies before they start them elsewhere. Tagged With: Muslim Uyghurs Related articles Disappearing Mosques of Xinjiang Detainees Recount Abuse in Chinese Re-Education Centers Public Trials Re-Emerge in Xinjiang Xinjiang Residents Told to Worship Xi Jinping Read more “Studies” in Prison: Staff Member Uncovers Details of a Xinjiang Camp... Bitter Winter continues exposing the lies by Chinese authorities about the “tr... Muslims Pushed to the Fringes of Housing Market Police notification about Uyghur travelers. As a result of discriminatory poli... Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and F... ﻿ While China tries to defend the indefensible claiming that the transformation... Suspected of Extremism if Not Singing at Weddings Urgent Notice on Further Improving Home-Stay Program. The employees at a hospi... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
