Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools   | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools 05/14/2018 Bitter Winter Source: ChinaAid Date: May 13, 2018 ChinaAid reports on the government’s violations of the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of religious belief by prohibiting citizens from participating in religious activities in schools. China’s Ministry of Education issued a notice in February, ordering education departments to pay particular attention to the moral education of elementary and middle school students and political instructions of the staff. It also encourages the schools to undergo training to “guard against religious infiltration.” Recently, all universities in Qingdao, Shandong, launched an investigation of teachers and students, prohibiting party members from believing in a religion. Authorities also started collecting information on house churches, registering believers attending Sunday services. Yangtze University advised its students not to attend house churches or private Bible study sessions and not to accept funds from religious organizations. At the end of February, the Beita District Administration of Education and Technology in Shaoyang, Hunan, released a statement warning that no religious activities should take place on campus. To maintain stability schools are encouraged to “guard against evil cults and illegal religions.” Nanjing Medical University in Jiangsu recently pushed for stronger control over ethnic and religious work. While at the end of 2017, Guangxi Normal University started a campaign to prohibit all forms of religious activity on campus. Tagged With: China Aid, House Churches, Religion in schools, Religious Liberty Related articles Religious Belief Investigated in Schools Pressured by China, Myanmar Deports Chinese Missionaries Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords House Church Christians Sentenced Under the False Accuse of Being Members of the Three Grades of Servants Read more Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Xiamen University; CREDITS Caiguanhao - CC BY-SA 3.0 The CCP exerts an iron ha... Muslims Pushed to the Fringes of Housing Market Police notification about Uyghur travelers. As a result of discriminatory poli... Harassed for Signing Statement Against Authorities The Joint Statement that over 450 pastors, ministers, and elders signed. The G... CCP and House Churches in a Cat and Mouse Game Since house churches have come up with several ingenious ways to evade persecu... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
