China Daily Website - Connecting China Connecting the World Home Portal BBS Blog Album Group Magic nature Frozen in Antarctica Pandas enjoy the early winter Aviation-themed canteen 1 2 3 4 Why are parents in a rush trying to push their kids ahead? Zhejiang reports more new HIV/AIDS cases More Peppa Pig, Legoland attractions in China Multilingual translators help foreign visitors China allocates 90.98 bln yuan for poverty alleviation Chinese father runs marathon with disabled son Luo Shujian, a courier from the rural community of Jinhua in Zhejiang, was able to complete his home-town run while pushing his disabled 10-year old son in a wheelchair. 0 Tibetan medicinal bathing listed as Intangible Cultural Heritage The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) inscribed China's Lum medicinal bathing of Sowa Rigpa on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. 2 East China city creates 'guardian seat to safeguard bus drivers A "guardian" seat has been introduced on some buses in Qingdao City of east China's Shandong Province, as its latest effort to ensure safe driving on public transport. 0 Researcher unveils baby gene-editing trial details Geneticist He Jiankui, who says he has altered the genes of twin girls born this month, has spoken out about the details of his controversial medical procedure at the Second International Summit on Hu 0 Shanghai math counts in British schools The UK department of education and Shanghai education commission signed a memorandum of understanding yesterday to kick off the third round of exchange, now including secondary schools. 1 Ethics debate rages over China's gene-edited babies The story has shocked both the world of academia and the Internet in China, fueling a range of debates, including the credibility of the research and the ethical concerns behind it. 0 Chinese netizens offer donations for Pakistani officers Chinese netizens are eager to donate money to the families of two Pakistani police officers who got killed during an attack on the Chinese Consulate-General in the southern Pakistani city of Karachi on Friday. 1 Ningxia 6-year-old girl takes care of paralyzed father Six-year-old Tian Jia has looked after her father for nearly two years, after he was left paralyzed in a car accident. She gets up every day at 6 a.m. to help her father get out of bed and into his wheelchair. 1 China's female tourists outnumber male in seeking overseas DIY travel Chinese women are showing a stronger interest in traveling overseas without using a travel agent compared to their male peers as the outbound tourism market burgeons in China. 0 China plans first undersea tunnel for high-speed trains China will build its first undersea tunnel for high-speed trains, connecting two cities in eastern province of Zhejiang, according to local authorities. 0 Community login LoginRegister Most viewed Most commented Taiwan leader lost people's hearts Scientists reveal giant mammal competed with dinosaurs Is it moral to create genetically modified babies? HIV rate at low level in China Black Friday affected by trade frictions between China and U.S Netizens offer donations for Pakistani officers China's female tourists outnumber male in seeking overseas DIY travel Is it possible for the US to evict China from WTO? 'Golden Flowers' in the Spring F Should schools be allowed to punish stud Login Magic nature Polls open in 2018 US midterm elections Depraved Chinese women are bringing the country down, says e 治学必须严谨, 不能丝毫靠造假或搞吹捧 TRAVELOGUE -- a personal globetrotting odyssey Forum Trends Should parents arrange blind dates? What is going wrong with Chinese higher education? Spring Festival survival tips for foreigners Renting a partner for Spring Festival? Blog Contest Blog contest for foreigners My Qingming story.... Banking services in China My Chinese experience: Moral lapse Star Bloggers anastasiasuli MichaelM Sava teamkrejados 翻译小组 双语实验室(Bilingual Lab) 英文翻译大赛 众筹翻译 Photos Magic nature Frozen in Antarctica Pandas enjoy the early winter Aviation-themed canteen Heartbreaking contrast Maple forest scenery BACK TO THE TOP News Talk China Watch Chinese Economy Military Affairs China & World World Affairs Life in China Q&A Friendship, Love, Relationships Making friends Everyday life Travel Leisure Time Free Talk Fun Language Learning 语言学习 Bilingual News 双语新闻 Practical English 实用英语 Translation Tips 翻译点津 Listening & Downloads 听力练习及下载 Chinese Learning 中文学习 English Study
