Christians in Guizhou Urged to Register at the Official Church | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Christians in Guizhou Urged to Register at the Official Church Christians in Guizhou Urged to Register at the Official Church 05/14/2018 Bitter Winter Source: ChinaAid Date: May 13, 2018 ChinaAid reports on yet another attempt by religious affairs bureau to coerce members of Huaqiu Church congregation in China’s southern Guizhou to join the state-run Three-Self Church. Officials from the bureau visited the church last Tuesday and told the church’s director and eight members of the congregation present at the site that the church should obtain government permission to hold services. The officials instructed the believers to communicate with pastors from the China Christian Council and the National Committee of the Three-Self Patriotic Movement – China’s only two government-approved Christian organizations. The bureaus’ personnel warned the church’s director to be vigilant of foreigners who are trying to ideologically infiltrate China. The government has targeted Huaqiu Church before: last year, the police pressured the church to give out members’ personal information and used coercion to make some members of the congregation abstain from attending the church. Tagged With: Christian Council, Huagiu Church, Three-Self Church, Three-Self Patriotic Movement Related articles No Church Can Be Taller Than Government Buildings in China Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches The Police Seize a Three-Self Church in Changyuan, Henan Province, and Arrest Pastors Party Slogans Instead of Crosses Read more Party Songs Instead of Prayer Churches across China are forced to sing songs praising the Communist Party or e... Church in Henan Forcibly Demolished (VIDEOS) The church before its demolition. The authorities claimed that a government-co... Facial Recognition Checks to Enter a Church The front door of the church is locked and fenced off with iron wire. Anyone w... Over 600 Crosses Removed in Henan (Videos) Lian’gou Village Church in Baitu town, Luanchuan county of Luoyang city before ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
