Codacy · GitHub Marketplace Skip to content Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ No suggested jump to results Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ Search All GitHub ↵ Jump to ↵ Pull requests Issues Marketplace Explore New repository Import repository New gist New organization Bricking Signed in as Bricking Your profile Your repositories Your stars Your gists Help Settings Sign out Sign out Sign out Marketplace Codacy Codacy Set up a plan Categories Code quality Code review Supported languages Go, Java, JavaScript and 7 other languages supported Developer links Support Status Documentation Privacy Policy Terms of Service Codacy is an automated code analysis/quality tool that helps developers ship better software, faster. With Codacy, you get static analysis, cyclomatic complexity, duplication and code unit test coverage changes in every commit and pull request. You can use Codacy to enforce your code quality standard, save time in code reviews, enforce security best practices and onboard developers faster. Integrate with your GitHub repositories to get quality analysis of every pull request inside GitHub. Read more... Integrated in your workflow  Codacy adapts to your code review process, pushing results as comments in your pull requests and commits into your workflow in GitHub. Track your quality evolution  Get a code quality glance at your project and track its quality evolution over time, easily paying back your technical debt. Multilanguage With over 20 languages supported Codacy covers all your project needs. If you're already using a code linter you’ll feel right at home as we probably support it. Code coverage With included code coverage integrated with your CI, Codacy will help you manage your project quality needs and help you pass from 10% to 80%. Quality settings You can define quality settings for your pull requests and commits that act as thresholds for your work. Security checks Our Security Dashboard quickly shows alerts from running hundreds of security analysis checks in your project. Learn more Pricing and setup Open Source Free for open source projects $0 Pro Unlimited private repositories $18 per user / month $180 per user / year Codacy Open Source Free for open source projects Install it for free Next: Confirm your installation location. Codacy is provided by a third-party and is governed by separate terms, privacy policy, and support documentation. © 2018 GitHub, Inc. Terms Privacy Security Status Help Contact GitHub Pricing API Training Blog About You can’t perform that action at this time. You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. Press h to open a hovercard with more details.
