Communication studies - Wikipedia Communication studies From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "Communication research" redirects here. For the academic journal, see Communication Research (journal). Communication Portal · History General aspects Communication theory Information Semiotics Language Logic Sociology Fields Discourse analysis Linguistics Mass communication Organizational communication Pragmatics Semiotics Sociolinguistics Disciplines Public speaking Interaction Discourse Culture Argumentation Persuasion Research Rhetoric Literature Philosophy Categories Outline v t e Communication studies or communication sciences is an academic discipline that deals with processes of human communication. There are three types of communication: verbal, involving listening to a person to understand the meaning of a message; written, in which a message is read; and nonverbal communication involving observing a person and inferring meaning.[1] The discipline encompasses a range of topics, from face-to-face conversation to mass media outlets, such as television broadcasting. Communication studies shares with cultural studies an interest in how messages are interpreted through the political, cultural, economic, semiotic, hermeneutic, and social dimensions of their contexts. In political economics, communication studies examines how the politics of ownership affects content. Quantitative communication studies examines statistics in order to help substantiate claims.[2][3] Contents 1 History 2 Scope 2.1 In the United States 2.2 In Canada 3 Professional associations 4 See also 5 References 6 Bibliography History[edit] Main article: History of communication studies Communication science began in earnest when students of Wilbur Schramm—the founder of the Institute for Communications Research at the University of Illinois—namely David Berlo, came to Michigan State University and founded the first General Communication Arts department in the early 1950s.[4] Though there are other communication sciences departments elsewhere, Michigan State was the first department in the US that was dedicated solely to the study of communication sciences using a quantitative approach. It is still one of Michigan State's strongest programs and nationally ranked in the study of human communication. Scope[edit] Communication studies integrates aspects of both social sciences and the humanities. As a social science, the discipline overlaps with sociology, psychology, anthropology, biology, political science, economics, and public policy.[5] From a humanities perspective, communication is concerned with rhetoric and persuasion (traditional graduate programs in communication studies trace their history to the rhetoricians of Ancient Greece). Humanities approaches to communication often overlap with history, philosophy, english, and cultural studies. In the United States[edit] Undergraduate curricula aim to prepare students to interrogate the nature of communication in society, and the development of communication as a specific field.[6] The National Communication Association (NCA) recognizes nine distinct but often overlapping sub-disciplines within the broader communication discipline: technology, critical-cultural, health, intercultural, interpersonal-small group, mass communication, organizational, political, rhetorical, and environmental communication. Students take courses in these subject areas. Other programs and courses often integrated in communication programs include journalism, film criticism, theatre, public relations, political science (e.g., political campaign strategies, public speaking, effects of media on elections), as well as radio, television, computer-mediated communication, film production, and new media. In Canada[edit] With the early influence of federal institutional inquiries, notably the 1951 Massey Commission, which "investigated the overall state of culture in Canada,"[7] the study of communication in Canada has frequently focused on the development of a cohesive national culture, and on infrastructural empires of social and material circulation. Although influenced by the American Communication tradition and British Cultural Studies, Communication studies in Canada has been more directly oriented toward the state and the policy apparatus, for example the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission. Influential thinkers from the Canadian communication tradition include Harold Innis, Marshall McLuhan, Florian Sauvageau, Gertrude Robinson, Marc Raboy, Dallas Smythe, Gail Guthrie Valaskakis and George Grant. Professional associations[edit] American Journalism Historians Association (AJHA) Association for Business Communication (ABC) Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC) Association for Teachers of Technical Writing (ATTW)[8] Black College Communication Association (BCCA)[9] Broadcast Education Association (BEA) Central States Communication Association (CSCA) Council of Communication Associations (CCA) European Association for the Teaching of Academic Writing (EATAW)[10] European Communication Research and Education Association IEEE Professional Communication Society[11] International Association for Media and Communications Research[12] International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) International Communication Association (ICA), an international, academic association for communication studies concerned with all aspects of human and mediated communication National Association for Media Literacy Education (NAMLE)[13] National Communication Association (NCA), professional organization concerned with various aspects of communication studies in the United States Public Relations Society of America (PRSA) Rhetoric Society of America (RSA) Society for Cinema and Media Studies, organization for communication research pertaining to film studies Society for Technical Communication (STC) University Film and Video Association, organization for the study of motion-picture production See also[edit] Communication Outline of communication Communibiology Communication theory Critical theory Digital rhetoric Linguistics Philosophy of language Rhetoric Semiotics Semiotics of culture Text and conversation theory Category:Communication journals References[edit] ^ "Different Types of Communication and Channels". New Charter University. Archived from the original on March 10, 2016. Retrieved February 10, 2016. ^ Hayes, Andrew F. (2005). Statistical Methods for Communication Science. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. pp. 8–9. ^ Caffarel-Serra, Carmen; Ortega, Félix; Gaitán, Juan-Antonio (2018-07-01). "Communication research in Spain: Weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities". Comunicar (in Spanish). 26 (56). doi:10.3916/c56-2018-06. ISSN 1134-3478. ^ Rogers, Everett M. (2001), "The Department of Communication at Michigan State University as a Seed Institution for Communication Study", Communication Studies, 52 (3): 234–248 ^ Calhoun, Craig (2011). "Communication as Social Science (And More)" (PDF). International Journal of Communication. McGill University. 5: 1479–1496. ^ Morreale, Sherwyn; Osborn, Michael; Pearson, Judy (2000). "Why Communication is Important: A Rationale for the Centrality of the Study of Communication" (PDF). Journal of the Association for Communication Administration. National Communication Association. 29: 1–25. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-01-05. Retrieved 2016-09-07. ^ "Massey Commission | The Canadian Encyclopedia". www.thecanadianencyclopedia.ca. Retrieved 2018-10-25. ^ ATTW ^ BCCA ^ EATAW ^ PCS ^ IAMCR ^ NAMLE Bibliography[edit] Carey, James. 1988 Communication as Culture. Cohen, Herman. 1994. The History of Speech Communication: The Emergence of a Discipline, 1914-1945. Annandale, VA: Speech Communication Association. Gehrke, Pat J. 2009. The Ethics and Politics of Speech: Communication and Rhetoric in the Twentieth Century. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press. Packer, J. & Robertson, C, eds. 2006. Thinking with James Carey: Essays on Communications, Transportation, History. Peters, John Durham and Peter Simonson, eds. 2004. Mass Communication and American Social Thought: Key Texts 1919-1968. Wahl-Jorgensen, Karin 2004, 'How Not to Found a Field: New Evidence on the Origins of Mass Communication Research', Journal of Communication, September 2004. v t e Communication studies Topics and terminology Biocommunication Broadcasting Communication Computer-mediated communication Conversation History of communication Information Intercultural / Interpersonal / Intrapersonal communication Journalism Mass media Meaning Media ecology Meta-communication Models of communication New media Nonverbal communication Propaganda Reading Speech Symbol Telecommunication Text and conversation theory Writing Subfields Communication design Communication theory Communicology Crisis communication Cross-cultural communication Development communication Discourse analysis Environmental communication Health communication International communication Mass communication Media studies Mediated cross-border communication Organizational communication Political communication Risk communication Science communication Technical communication Visual communication Related fields Conversation analysis Critical theory Cultural studies Digital rhetoric Film criticism Heritage interpretation Journalism photojournalism Linguistics Philosophy of language Political science Pragmatics Public relations Rhetoric Semiotics Sociolinguistics Sociology of culture Theatre Scholars Adorno Barthes Bateson Benjamin Burke Castells Chomsky Craig Fisher Flusser Gerbner Goffman Habermas Horkheimer Huxley Innis Jakobson Janis Johnson Kincaid Lippman Luhmann Marcuse McLuhan Mead Morgan Ong Packard Peirce Postman Quebral Richards Rogers Schramm Tankard Tannen Wertheimer Category History Journals Organizations Outline Scholars Templates v t e Social sciences Primary Anthropology archaeology cultural linguistics biological anthropology social Economics microeconomics macroeconomics Geography human integrative History cultural economic military political social Law jurisprudence legal history legal systems Political science international relations psephology public administration public policy Psychology abnormal biological cognitive developmental personality social Sociology criminology demography internet rural urban Interdisciplinary Anthrozoology Area studies Business studies Cognitive science Communication studies Community studies Cultural studies Development studies Education Environmental (social science studies) Food studies Gender studies Global studies History of technology Human ecology Information science International studies Media studies Philosophy of science economics history psychology social science Planning land use regional urban Political ecology Political economy Public health Regional science Science and technology studies Science studies historical Social work Other categorizations Humanities Geisteswissenschaft Human science Index Journals Outline Wikiversity Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Communication_studies&oldid=866818922" Categories: Communication studies Academic disciplines Hidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es) Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Български Deutsch Esperanto فارسی Bahasa Indonesia 日本語 Simple English Tagalog Edit links This page was last edited on 1 November 2018, at 19:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
