Contract: one party changes the terms after the other has become dependent on deal - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Contract: one party changes the terms after the other has become dependent on deal Ask Question up vote 0 down vote favorite Suppose Party A and Party B sign a letter of intent wherein Part A is selling its assets to Party B. Over time, they are working together to nail down all the details of the agreement in a full contract. But the letter of intent already defines everything both parties see as important at the time that letter is signed. Because everyone knows that the sale is in progress, Part A is severely hampered in many ways; its employees start leaving, other potential buyers disappear. Since Party B wants to be purchasing an intact business, it starts supplying some staff to work at Party A's offices while the details of the contract are worked out. Before long, Party A becomes completely dependent on Party B's offer. It is no longer in a condition where it could find another buyer for remotely the original price if Party B backed out. At this point, Party B adds an extreme demand which was not contemplated in the letter of intent, which is very deleterious to Party A's interests. It won't back down; it demands this new stipulation or it will back out of the sale. It seems to me that this situation is extremely abusive, and that it should be possible to successfully sue Party B for severely damaging the prospects for a satisfactory sale of Party A's assets. Party B seems to be operating in an extremely manipulative manner which shows bad faith. Is there any case law that supports this view (or supports the opposite view)? Is there a specific legal principle in play here which has a name? contract-law share|improve this question asked Jun 11 '17 at 21:00 garyrob 1153 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 2 down vote accepted There is probably already a contract between the parties and contracts cannot be changed unilaterally. Party A can go to court either to seek specific performance of the contract or damages for breach. See What is a contract and what is required for them to be valid? While a letter of intent is generally not enough to create a contract, the letter combined with the subsequent conduct of the parties suggests that one may exist. Notwithstanding, A has a case in equity for promissory estoppel. B has allowed A to believe that the sale would proceed on certain terms and has stood by and watched (in some parts has actively participated) as A, in reliance on that belief, has taken actions deleterious to its interests. B must restore A to its previous position or follow through on its promises. share|improve this answer answered Jun 11 '17 at 23:09 Dale M 48.8k12769 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged contract-law or ask your own question. asked 1 year, 5 months ago viewed 79 times active 1 year, 5 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Linked 6 What is a contract and what is required for them to be valid? Related 3Can other party sneak in new contract terms via termination notice? 4Does there really exist such thing as “no contract” when doing business with other party? 2Is a contract valid if one party doesn't know the other has signed? 1Can contract have a clause that changes the contract 1Is it possible for a party to a contract to use a mutual NDA primarily to constrain the other party? 2Is a payment contract invalid if one party doesn't attempt to collect payment from other parties? 0Does “shall” in a contract preclude the other party from performing a task? -2Changes to contract after one party signs 0Do I have to notify the other party of changes I made to the contract before signing it? 2Is a contract valid if one of the party doesn't even read it? Hot Network Questions Why doesn't JavaScript warn me when I use arr.lenght (misspelled) instead of arr.length in a loop? I also use strict mode When does the soul leave the body after death? Is the `std::exception`, in its current form, redundant? Changing field types so graduated symbols are available Can women also go shirtless in public legally? Latin usage & perfect passive finite verb forms Are there any publically available recordings of conversations between ATC and pilots? Children's ghost story in 1980s whose character names started A, B, C Can I buy only the glass in the Christmas market? Is there a term for "the user can't use anything wrong" design? An object that is gold in one specific area but becomes worthless if you leave that area? Is a solar system around a black hole possible? Can't see "home" partition in "other locations" Do primary keys change when indexes are rebuilt or reorganized? Given an image how to identify whether it is RAW file or not A ring which contains a nonprime maximal ideal Cannot be granted promotion due to Company Policy Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? Mutually invisible foes. How can they fight? Iconic Places and 820.5: Grandpa's silly math Why don't commercial airplanes carry Earth-observing instruments? Why do Republicans and others accept the propagandaic use of the term "Progressives"? Customise voicemail message based on caller Is 不 A 不 B a grammatical structure like 又 A 又 B? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
