Count noun - Wikipedia Count noun From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Grammatical categories Affect Polarity Agreement Animacy Argument/Complement/Adjunct Associated motion Associativity[1] Boundedness Branching Classifier Clusivity Comparison Construct state Contrast Countability/Uncountability Dative construction/Quirky subject Dative shift Declension Definiteness Evidentiality Feature Focus Genitive construction Aspect Case Conjugation Grammatical gender/Noun class Mood Number Person Tense Honorifics Incorporation Inflection Lexical aspect (Aktionsart) Modality Markedness Mirativity Negation Pluractionality Polypersonal agreement Possession Predicate Reciprocity Serial verb construction Singulative-Collective-Pluractive Specificity Subject/Object Suffixaufnahme (Case stacking) Telicity Tense–aspect–mood Thematic relation (Agent/Patient) Topic and Comment Transitivity Valency Voice Volition v t e Look up count noun in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. In linguistics, a count noun (also countable noun) is a noun that can be modified by a numeral and that occurs in both singular and plural forms, and that co-occurs with quantificational determiners like every, each, several, etc. A mass noun has none of these properties, because it cannot be modified by a numeral, cannot occur in plural, and cannot co-occur with quantificational determiners. Contents 1 Examples 2 Grammatical distinction 3 Theory 4 Linguistic differences 5 See also 6 References Examples[edit] Below are examples of all the properties of count nouns holding for the count noun chair, but not for the mass noun furniture. Occurrence in plural/singular. There is a chair in the room. There are chairs in the room. There is chair in the room. (incorrect) There is a furniture in the room. (incorrect) There are furnitures in the room. (incorrect) There is furniture in the room. Co-occurrence with count determiners Every chair is man made. There are several chairs in the room. Every furniture is man made. (incorrect) There are several furnitures in the room. (incorrect) Some determiners can be used with both mass and count nouns, including "some", "a lot (of)", "no". Others cannot: "few" and "many" are used with count items, "little" and "much" with mass. (On the other hand, "fewer" is reserved for count and "less" for mass (see Fewer vs. less), but "more" is the proper comparative for both "many" and "much".) Grammatical distinction[edit] This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) The concept of a "mass noun" is a grammatical concept and is not based on the innate nature of the object to which that noun refers. For example, "seven chairs" and "some furniture" could refer to exactly the same objects, with "seven chairs" referring to them as a collection of individual objects but with "some furniture" referring to them as a single undifferentiated unit. However, some abstract phenomena like "fun" and "hope" have properties which make it difficult to refer to them with a count noun. Classifiers are sometimes used as count nouns preceding mass nouns, in order to redirect the speaker's focus away from the mass nature. For example, "There's some furniture in the room" can be restated, with a change of focus, to "There are some pieces of furniture in the room"; and "let's have some fun" can be refocused as "Let's have a bit of fun". In English, some nouns are used most frequently as mass nouns, with or without a classifier (as in "Waiter, I'll have some coffee" or "Waiter, I'll have a cup of coffee"), but also, less frequently, as count nouns (as in "Waiter, we'll have three coffees.") Theory[edit] Following the work of logicians like Godehard Link and linguists like Manfred Krifka, we know that the mass/count distinction can be given a precise mathematical definition in terms of notions like cumulativity and quantization. Recently,[when?] a new logical framework, called plural logic, has also been used for characterizing the semantics of count nouns and mass nouns.[2] Linguistic differences[edit] Some languages, such as Mandarin Chinese, treat all nouns as mass nouns, and need to make use of a noun classifier (see Chinese classifier) to add numerals and other quantifiers. The following examples are of nouns which, while seemingly innately countable, are still treated as mass nouns: 那个人吃完了 (nà gè rén chī wán le) – "That unit person has eaten", "That person has eaten" 那三个人吃完了(nà sān gè rén chī wán le) – "Those three unit person' have eaten", "Those three people have eaten" 她有七本书 (tā yŏu qī bĕn shū) – "She has seven unit book", "She has seven books." A classifier, therefore, implies that the object(s) referred to are countable in the sense that the speaker intends them to be enumerated, rather than considered as a unit (regardless of quantity). Notice that the classifier changes as the unit being counted changes. Words such as "milk" or "rice" are not so obviously countable entities, but they can be counted with an appropriate unit of measure in both English and Mandarin (e.g., "glasses of milk" or "spoonfuls of rice"). The use of a classifier is similar to, but not identical with, the use of units of measurement to count groups of objects in English. For example, in "three shelves of books", "shelves" is used as a unit of measurement. On the other hand, some languages like Turkish treats all the nouns, even the not so obviously countable entities as count nouns. Pirinçler daha tam pişmemiş. – "The rice (lit. rices) hasn't been cooked well yet" Sütler hep yerlere döküldü. – "The milk (lit. milks) has been spilled all over the floor (lit. floors)" Nehirlerin suları çok güzel akıyor. – "The rivers' water (lit. waters) flows very nicely" Parasız kişiler için kitaplar dağıtıyorlar. – "They are distributing books for the people without money" Even then, it's possible to use units of measures with numbers in Turkish, even with the very obviously countable nouns. Note that the Turkish nouns can't take a plural suffix after the numbers and the units of measure. Beş bardak süt – "five glasses of milk" İki kaşık dolusu pirinç – "two spoonfuls of rice" Üç tane kişi – "three units of person" Dört metrekare yer – "Four square meters of floor" Yedi raf kitap – "seven shelves of books" See also[edit] Collective noun Grammatical number Measure word References[edit] ^ "Grammatical Features - Associativity". www.grammaticalfeatures.net. ^ Nicolas, D. (2008). "Mass nouns and plural logic" (PDF). Linguistics and Philosophy. 31 (2): 211–244. doi:10.1007/s10988-008-9033-2. Retrieved 2009-12-27. v t e Lexical categories and their features Noun Abstract / Concrete Adjectival Agent Animate / Inanimate Attributive Common / Proper Countable / Mass / Collective Initial-stress-derived Relational Strong / Weak Verbal / Deverbal Verb Forms Finite / Non-finite Attributive Converb Gerund Gerundive Infinitive Participle (adjectival · adverbial) Supine Verbal noun Types Accusative Ambitransitive Andative/Venitive Anticausative Autocausative Auxiliary Captative Catenative Compound Copular Defective Denominal Deponent Ditransitive Dynamic ECM Ergative Frequentative Impersonal Inchoative Intransitive Irregular Lexical Light Modal Monotransitive Negative Performative Phrasal Predicative Preterite-present Reflexive Regular Separable Stative Stretched Strong Transitive Unaccusative Unergative Weak Adjective Collateral Demonstrative Nominalized Possessive Postpositive Adverb Genitive Conjunctive Flat Locative Interrogative Prepositional Pronominal Relative Pronoun Demonstrative Disjunctive Distributive Donkey Dummy Formal/Informal Gender-neutral Gender-specific Inclusive/Exclusive Indefinite Intensive Interrogative Objective Personal Possessive Prepositional Reciprocal Reflexive Relative Resumptive Subjective Weak Preposition/postposition Inflected Casally modulated Stranded Conjunction Determiner Article Demonstrative Interrogative Possessive Quantifier Classifier Measure word Particle Discourse Interrogative Modal Noun Possessive Complementizer Other Yes and no Copula Coverb Expletive Interjection (verbal) Preverb Pro-form Pro-sentence Pro-verb Procedure word Prop-word Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Count_noun&oldid=862299743" Categories: Nouns by type Grammatical number Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from September 2010 All articles needing additional references All articles with vague or ambiguous time Vague or ambiguous time from May 2018 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Afrikaans العربية Deutsch Eesti Español Kiswahili 日本語 Walon 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 3 October 2018, at 13:37 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
