Deutsche Bank headquarters raided over money laundering - BBC News Homepage Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Local Tomorrow's World TV Radio Menu Search Search the BBCSearch the BBC News BBC News Navigation Sections Home Video World US & Canada UK Business selected Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Business selected Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Business Business Deutsche Bank headquarters raided over money laundering 29 November 2018 Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share this with Facebook Share this with WhatsApp Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share Share this with These are external links and will open in a new window Email Share this with Email Facebook Share this with Facebook Messenger Share this with Messenger Messenger Share this with Messenger Twitter Share this with Twitter Pinterest Share this with Pinterest WhatsApp Share this with WhatsApp LinkedIn Share this with LinkedIn Copy this link https://www.bbc.com/news/business-46382722 Read more about sharing. These are external links and will open in a new window Close share panel Image copyright Reuters The Frankfurt headquarters of Deutsche Bank have been raided by prosecutors in a money laundering investigation. Germany's public prosecutor alleged that two staff members have helped clients launder money from criminal activities. Police cars were seen outside the tower blocks that house the headquarters of Germany's biggest bank. Five other Deutsche offices in the city were searched in an operation involving about 170 police and officials. Prosecutors are looking into whether Deutsche Bank staff helped clients set up offshore accounts to "transfer money from criminal activities". The investigation, which began in August, focuses on activities between 2013 and the start of 2018. In 2016 alone, more than 900 customers were served by a Deutsche Bank subsidiary registered in the British Virgin Islands, generating a volume of €311m, the prosecutors allege. The investigation was sparked by revelations in the 2016 "Panama Papers" - an enormous amount of information leaked from a Panamanian law firm called Mossack Fonseca. What are the Panama Papers? Other banks have been fined as a result of information contained in the Panama Papers. Deutsche shares fell 3% after news of the raid emerged. The bank confirmed that police had raided several locations in Germany and that it was co-operating fully with the probe. Paperwork and electronic documents were seized by officials during the raids on the bank's properties. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Deutsche Bank's headquarters in Frankfurt occupy two towers Deutsche has been connected with another huge money laundering scandal at Denmark's Danske Bank. Earlier this month, Deutsche confirmed that it was involved in processing payments for the Danish bank in Estonia. An internal investigation by Danske found that about €200bn (£177bn) of payments were funnelled through its Estonian branch. The Danish bank said many of those payments were suspicious. Deutsche said it had terminated its relationship with Danske in 2015 after "identifying suspicious activity". Fines and sanctions Deutsche Bank has been sanctioned in the past for failing to tackle money laundering. In September, Germany's financial regulator ordered the bank to take further action to prevent money laundering and terrorism financing. It also appointed an independent auditor to monitor Deutsche Bank's efforts over three years. In 2017, Deutsche Bank was fined $630m (£504m) by US and UK regulators in connection with a Russian money laundering plan. Under the scheme, clients illegally moved $10bn out of Russia via shares bought and sold through the bank's Moscow, London and New York offices. Image copyright Reuters Image caption Chief executive Christian Sewing took over at Deutsche Bank in April The trouble with authorities comes at a time when Deutsche continued to face problems with its business. Pre-tax profits for the three months to September fell 45% to €506m compared with the same period last year. Chief executive Christian Sewing, who took over in April, has been shedding jobs and making other cost cuts in an attempt to revive the bank's performance. However, investors have yet to be been won over by his efforts and Deutsche shares have halved this year. Related Topics Money laundering Deutsche Bank Companies Banking Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Messenger Messenger Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp LinkedIn More on this story What are the Panama Papers? 6 April 2016 Top Stories Trump ex-lawyer admits lying to Congress Michael Cohen says he lied "out of loyalty" to Mr Trump, while the president says he is "weak". 29 November 2018 Race to pull greenhouse gases from air 29 November 2018 Trump cancels Putin talks over Ukraine 29 November 2018 Features Six surprising statistics about immigrants in the US Why is the Taj Mahal crumbling? Video How sextortion scammers targeted a BBC reporter What (else) we've just learnt about Russia probe BBC Future: Is breakfast really the most important meal? How your old computer is reborn as a robot Video Romania's disappearing forest Are free ports the future? Why has the UK not blocked Huawei? Elsewhere on the BBC Football phrases 15 sayings from around the world Full article Football phrases Why you can trust BBC News BBC News Navigation Business Sections Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Home Video World World Home Africa Asia Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada US & Canada Home UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business selected Business Home Market Data Global Trade Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Connected World Global Education Economy Tech Science Stories Entertainment & Arts Health In Pictures Reality Check World News TV Newsbeat Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On your connected tv Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC Home News Sport Weather iPlayer Sounds CBBC CBeebies Food Bitesize Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Local Tomorrow's World TV Radio Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Get Personalised NewslettersCopyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
