Documents and Pictures We Obtained from China | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Documents and Pictures We Obtained from China Documents and Pictures We Obtained from China 05/04/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 4, 2018 Bitter Winter was able to obtain from China some rare images of the crackdown against religious activities involving minors and the public preaching of religion that is taking place in China. The first document has been distributed by a school in Henan and its translation reads as follows: “1. Overseas NGOs shall neither engage in nor sponsor religious activities within China; Foreigners shall not recruit members within China, distribute religious propaganda materials, or carry out missionary activities within China; It is prohibited to proselytize in schools or educational bodies other than religious schools; It is banned to set up religious education classes or instill religious ideas into students in schools or educational bodies other than religious schools; Any organizations or individuals are not allowed to carry out religious activities in schools; It is prohibited to spread religious ideas or recruit members in schools; Nobody, in particular minors, should be forced to have religious belief; Voluntarily resist activities of illegal preaching to teenagers; Educate and guide minor students to stay away from religious activities.” Zhongzhuang School in Maoji Town, Tongbai County April 8, 2018.” The second picture depicts a banner hanging at an intermediate school in Henan Province, reading “Educate and Guide Minor Students to Stay Away From Religious Activities. The third is a banner also hanging at an intermediate school in Henan Province, reading “Organizations and Individuals Are not Allowed to Carry Out Religious Activities in Schools.” The fourth picture shows an image reading “It Is Prohibited to Carry Out Preaching Activities in Public Places.” Tagged With: Anti-Religion Activity in Schools Related articles Schools Suppress Religious Freedoms, a Teacher Scolds and Hits a Student Chinese Communist Party Intensifies Anti-Religious Activities in Schools Crackdown on Korean Christianity Spreads to Campuses and Communities Private School Closed Down, and Foreign Instructors Expelled for Suspected Religious Activities Read more Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Xiamen University; CREDITS Caiguanhao - CC BY-SA 3.0 The CCP exerts an iron ha... Shandong Authorities Target Christian Students at Universities A document from a city in Hebei Province sets forth regulations on religious be... Anti-Gang Campaign Targeting Believers in Full Swing Cities and villages across Shanxi are implementing special measures as part of... Gansu Authorities Prohibit Kindergarten Arabic Classes The lessons were interpreted as being a “conspiracy against the state.” As a r... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
