Earthworks (engineering) - Wikipedia Earthworks (engineering) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Caterpillar D10 bulldozer at work Earthworks are engineering works created through the processing of parts of the earth's surface involving quantities of soil or unformed rock. Contents 1 Types of excavation 2 Civil engineering use 3 Military use 4 Equipment 5 Mass haul planning 6 See also 7 References 8 External links Types of excavation[edit] Earth moving equipment (circa 1922) Flattened and leveled construction site. Road roller in the background. Excavation may be classified by type of material:[1]:13.1 Topsoil excavation Earth excavation Rock excavation Muck excavation – this usually contains excess water and unsuitable soil Unclassified excavation – this is any combination of material types Excavation may be classified by the purpose:[1]:13.1, 13.2 Stripping Roadway excavation Drainage or structure excavation Bridge excavation Channel excavation Footing excavation Borrow excavation Dredge excavation Underground excavation Civil engineering use[edit] Typical earthworks include roads, railway beds, causeways, dams, levees, canals, and berms. Other common earthworks are land grading to reconfigure the topography of a site, or to stabilize slopes. Geofoam is a new lightweight earthworks technique used to build a bridge overpass on weak soil near Montreal Military use[edit] Earthworks ditch and rampart in Germany - age prehistorical prior to 300 BC In military engineering, earthworks are, more specifically, types of fortifications constructed from soil. Although soil is not very strong, it is cheap enough that huge quantities can be used, generating formidable structures. Examples of older earthwork fortifications include moats, sod walls, motte-and-bailey castles, and hill forts. Modern examples include trenches and berms. Equipment[edit] Heavy construction equipment is usually used due to the amounts of material to be moved — up to millions of cubic metres. Earthwork construction was revolutionized by the development of the (Fresno) scraper and other earth-moving machines such as the loader, the dump truck, the grader, the bulldozer, the backhoe, and the dragline excavator. Mass haul planning[edit] Excavation of over 76 million cubic metres (23 million cubic metres of which was additional to the planned amount due to landslides) for the Culebra Cut, Panama canal construction photo taken circa 1907 Engineers need to concern themselves with issues of geotechnical engineering (such as soil density and strength) and with quantity estimation to ensure that soil volumes in the cuts match those of the fills, while minimizing the distance of movement. In the past, these calculations were done by hand using a slide rule and with methods such as Simpson's rule. Earthworks cost is a function of hauled amount x hauled distance. The goal of mass haul planning is to determine these amounts and the goal of mass haul optimization is to minimize either or both.[2] Now they can be performed with a computer and specialized software, including optimisation on haul cost and not haul distance (as haul cost is not proportional to haul distance). See also[edit] Contour trenching Cut and fill Earth movers, construction/engineering vehicles used for earthworks civil engineering Earth structure Gabion Keyline design Land restoration Regrading Spoil tip Terrace (agriculture) References[edit] ^ a b Frederick S. Merritt, M. Kent Loftin, Jonathan T. Ricketts, Standard Handbook for Civil Engineers, Fourth Edition, McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1995. ^ "Earthworks cost optimization through mass haul planning". www.topconplanning.com. Retrieved 7 June 2015. External links[edit] Finding Volume of Earthwork using Simpson's Rule Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Earthworks_(engineering)&oldid=871189576" Categories: Fortification (architectural elements) Civil engineering Geotechnical engineering Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2015 All articles needing additional references Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Català Deutsch فارسی Français Հայերեն Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Қазақша Kreyòl ayisyen Nederlands 日本語 Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский සිංහල Slovenčina Suomi Svenska Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 29 November 2018, at 15:02 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
