Eastman School of Music - Wikipedia Eastman School of Music From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Eastman School of Music University of Rochester Eastman at night Type Private Established 1921 Location Rochester , New York , USA Campus Urban Website www.esm.rochester.edu Location in New YorkShow map of New York Eastman School of Music (the US)Show map of the US The Eastman School of Music is the professional school of music of the University of Rochester in Rochester, New York. It was established in 1921 by industrialist and philanthropist George Eastman.[1][2][3] It offers Bachelor of Music (B.M.) degrees, Master of Arts (M.A.) degrees, Master of Music (M.M.) degrees, Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees, and Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.) degrees in many musical fields. The school also awards a "Performer's Certificate" or "Artist's Diploma". In 2015, there were more than 900 students enrolled in the collegiate division of the Eastman School (approximately 500 undergraduate and 400 graduate students). Students came from almost every state of the United States, with approximately 25% foreign students. Each year approximately 2000 students apply (1000 undergraduates and 1000 graduates). The acceptance rate was 13% in 2011 and about 1,000 students (ranging in age from 16 years to over 80 years of age) are enrolled in the Eastman School’s Community Music School. Contents 1 History 2 Campus and facilities 3 Degrees offered 4 Faculty and alumni 4.1 Directors and deans 4.2 Notable teachers 4.3 Notable alumni 5 Institute for Music Leadership 6 See also 7 References 8 External links History[edit] Alfred Klingenberg, a Norwegian pianist, was the school's first director. He was succeeded by composer Howard Hanson in 1924, who had an enormous impact on the development of the school, holding his post for four decades and continuing his involvement at Eastman after his retirement. Since the founding of the Eastman School of Music in 1921, the school has been directed by six men. Alfred Klingenberg served as the school’s first director from 1921 to 1923. After a one-year interim under Acting Director Raymond Wilson, the young American composer and conductor Howard Hanson was appointed director of the school in 1924. Dr. Hanson is credited for transforming the Eastman School into a top school. Upon his retirement in 1964, after serving as director of the school for 40 years, Hanson was succeeded by conductor Walter Hendl. Hendl served as director from 1964 to 1972, and was then succeeded by pianist and musicologist Robert Freeman who served from 1972 to 1996. Associate Director Daniel Patrylak served as the acting director from the time of Mr. Hendl’s resignation (May 1972) until Robert Freeman assumed the position in July 1973. Following the resignation of Robert Freeman in 1996, James Undercofler was then appointed Director and Dean of the Eastman School, and held that position until he resigned in 2006 to accept the position of C.E.O. and President of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Jamal Rossi, an Eastman alumnus, was appointed Interim Dean of the Eastman School in April 2006. On May 21, 2007, composer/conductor Douglas Lowry, formerly the dean of the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, was appointed Dean of the Eastman School, to begin serving in 2007.[4] Following Lowry's death in 2013, Rossi was appointed Dean. Campus and facilities[edit] Kilbourn Hall The Eastman School occupies parts of five buildings in downtown Rochester, New York. The main hall includes the renovated 3,094-seat Eastman Theater, the 455-seat Kilbourn Hall, the 222-seat Hatch Recital Hall, and offices for faculty. The Eastman Theatre opened in 1922 as a center for music, dance, and silent film with orchestral and organ accompaniment. Today, the 3,094-seat theatre is the primary concert hall for the Eastman School's larger ensembles, including its orchestras, wind ensembles, jazz ensembles, and chorale. Also, the Eastman Opera Theatre presents fully staged operatic productions in the theatre each spring. It also is the principal performance venue for the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra. A $5 million renovation of the theatre was completed in 2004. The theatre is located at 60 Gibbs Street, on the corner of Main and Gibbs Streets. Due to a $10 million donation by Eastman Kodak Inc. in April 2008, the Eastman Theatre was officially renamed "Kodak Hall at Eastman Theatre" upon the renovation's completion in 2010. The Sibley Music Library—the largest academic music library in North America[5]—is located across the street from the main hall. Hiram Watson Sibley founded the library in 1904 using the fortune he made as first president of Western Union. It moved to its current location in 1989, and occupies 45,000 square feet (4,200 m2) on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors of the Miller Center, formerly known as Eastman Place. The Sibley Music Library currently holds almost 750,000 items, ranging from 11th century codices to the latest compositions and recordings. Considered among its jewels are the original drafts of Debussy's impressionistic masterpiece, "La Mer." The Student Living Center, which is located at 100 Gibbs Street, is the dormitory building of the Eastman School of Music. In 1991, the new building was opened at the corner of Main and Gibbs Streets, replacing the University Avenue dormitories built nearly 70 years earlier. It is a four-story quadrangle and 14-story tower surrounding a landscaped inner courtyard, and contains its own dining hall. The majority of students enrolled in the undergraduate program live on campus in this building. Degrees offered[edit] The school offers Bachelor of Music (B.M.) degrees, Master of Arts (M.A.) degrees, Master of Music (M.M.) degrees, Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees, and Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.) degrees in many musical fields. The school also awards a "Performer's Certificate" or "Artist's Diploma" to students who demonstrate exceptionally outstanding performance ability. The Institute for Music Leadership, which was formed in 2001, offers a variety of diploma programs designed to educate and give students the skills and experience necessary to meet the demands of performance and education in today’s changing musical world. Faculty and alumni[edit] Main article: List of Eastman School of Music people Eastman alumni include singer Renée Fleming, Canadian Brass co-founder Charles Daellenbach, cellist Robert deMaine, drummer Steve Gadd, flugelhornist Chuck Mangione, author and journalist Michael Walsh, trumpeter Allen Vizzutti, scholar Horace Clarence Boyer and composers Maria Schneider and Cardon V. Burnham. Current faculty include musicians and pedagogues like the Ying Quartet, Katherine Ciesinski and Paul O'Dette. Directors and deans[edit] Alfred Klingenberg (Director, 1921–1923) Raymond Wilson (Acting Director, 1923–1924) Howard Hanson (Director, 1924–1964) Walter Hendl (Director, 1964–1972) Daniel Patrylak (Acting Director, 1972–1973) Robert Freeman (Director, 1973–1996) James Undercofler (Acting Director, 1996–1997; Director, 1997–2006) Jamal Rossi (Acting Director, 2006–2007; Acting Dean, 2013) Douglas Lowry (Dean, 2007–2013) Jamal Rossi (Dean, 2014–present) Notable teachers[edit] Samuel Adler, composition Federico Agostini, violin Katherine Ciesinski, voice David Craighead, organ Leonardo De Lorenzo, flute Frank Glazer, piano Harold Gleason, organ Nicholas Goluses, guitar Anthony Dean Griffey, voice Arthur Hartmann, violin Stanley Hasty, clarinet David Higgs, organ Henry Klumpenhouwer, music theory Alexander Kobrin, piano Oleh Krysa, violin W. Peter Kurau, horn Jon Manasse, clarinet Chuck Mangione, jazz ensemble John Marcellus, trombone Emory Remington, trombone Mendi Rodan, conductor Carlos Sanchez-Gutierrez, composition Marion Weed, voice Zvi Zeitlin, violin Allan Schindler, composition Notable alumni[edit] Michael Kozakis, percussion [6] Renée Fleming, singer Charles Daellenbach, co-founder of Canadian Brass Robert deMaine, cellist Steve Gadd, drummer Chuck Mangione, flugelhornist Michael Walsh, author and journalist Allen Vizzutti, trumpeter Horace Clarence Boyer, scholar Maria Schneider, composer Cardon V. Burnham, composer Institute for Music Leadership[edit] The Institute for Music Leadership (IML) was created to engage musicians in new ways and challenge them to think more broadly about music, its role, and their role in society. It serves as a center for the creation and implementation of new ideas related to music leadership, for Eastman students, alumni, and practicing musicians at all stages of their careers. The goals of the IML reflect the expansion of Eastman's role as an innovator and a standard bearer in professional development. The IML consists of four areas: Careers and Professional Development, Catherine Filene Shouse Arts Leadership Program (ALP), Center for Music Innovation and Engagement (CMIE), The Orchestra Musician Forum (OMF) and its website Polyphonic.org. The IML offers online courses and speed lessons: Interactive music theory classroom: This course teaches the basics of pitch, scales, rhythm and harmony and analysis of large symphonic works. Taught by Dr. Steven Laitz, this course provides live feedback, help sessions and tutorials. This course is completely online and students work on assignments over the course of a week.[7] Graduate music theory review: This course reviews undergraduate theory in preparation for graduate exams and classes and takes three and six weeks. It includes conceptual presentations and demonstrations, written and analytical exercises drawn from the literature, and skill development through singing, listening, and playing.[8] Music theory fundamentals in four weeks: This online course prepares first-year music majors for music theory placement exams. In addition to the presentation of basic music theory concepts and terminology, it includes over 200 sets of writing, playing, listening, singing, and conducting exercises. These lessons provide a transition between high school and college-level academics. The course can be completed in four to six weeks.[9] Speed lessons: These video lessons cover the standard orchestral repertoire for different instruments. They are taught by Eastman faculty members with demonstrations from their students. They include tips on what audition committees listen for, and on what technical challenges to watch out for.[10] See also[edit] List of concert halls References[edit] ^ Pratt, Waldo Selden (1920-01-01). Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians: Being the Sixth Volume of the Complete Work. American supplement. Macmillan Company. ^ Cattell, James McKeen (1919-01-01). School and Society. Society for the Advancement of Education. ^ "Almanac: The birth of Kodak". Sunday Morning. CBS Interactive. Retrieved 30 June 2014. ^ "Conductor, Composer Douglas Lowry Named Dean of Eastman School of Music". Eastman School of Music. ^ "Concert to spotlight centuries of music". NewsOK.com. ^ https://music.depaul.edu/faculty-staff/faculty-a-z/Pages/michael-kozakis.aspx ^ "eTheory LIVE: Interactive Music Theory Classroom". ^ "eTheory: Graduate Music Theory Review". ^ "eTheory: Music Theory Fundamentals in 4 weeks". ^ "Products - IML – Store". External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to University of Rochester. Official Eastman School of Music website Official University of Rochester website v t e University of Rochester Academics College of Arts, Sciences, and Engineering Eastman School of Music Margaret Warner Graduate School of Education and Human Development School of Medicine and Dentistry School of Nursing Simon Business School The Institute of Optics Campuses and locations River Campus University of Rochester Medical Center Eastman Campus South Campus Rush Rhees Library Memorial Art Gallery George Eastman Museum Eastman Theatre Sibley Music Library University of Rochester Arboretum Other Properties Research facilities C. E. K. Mees Observatory Laboratory for Laser Energetics University of Rochester Medical Center v t e City of Rochester, New York History - Nathaniel Rochester - Other notable residents - List of mayors Transportation Rochester-Genesee Regional Transportation Authority Greater Rochester International Airport Rochester Amtrak Station Erie Canal Douglass-Anthony Bridge Veterans Memorial Bridge Former Rochester Subway Aqueduct Lehigh Valley Railroad Station Erie Railroad Depot Spirit of Ontario I Neighborhoods Downtown Charlotte 19th Ward (Arvine Heights Chili–West) Browncroft Corn Hill South Wedge Linden–South Maplewood East End Eastman Business Park North Winton City Hall Historic District High Falls State Street Brown's Race Historic District 14621 Neighborhood Parks and landmarks Mount Hope Cemetery Highland Park Durand Eastman Park Genesee Valley Park Seneca Park Zoo George Eastman Museum Susan B. Anthony House Rundel Memorial Library Federal Building/City Hall Powers Building Blue Cross Arena Frontier Field Capelli Sport Stadium Sibley's, Lindsay and Curr Building First Federal Plaza Legacy Tower Kodak Tower Times Square Building Five Star Bank Plaza Xerox Tower Tower 280 (Midtown Tower) The Metropolitan Entertainment Sports in Rochester Strong National Museum of Play Rochester Museum and Science Center Memorial Art Gallery Rochester Contemporary Art Center Little Theatre Eastman Theatre Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra Water Street Music Hall Rochester Lilac Festival Rochester International Film Festival High Falls Film Festival Rochester International Jazz Festival Geva Theatre Center Food Nick Tahou Hots Zweigle's White hot Abbott's Frozen Custard DiBella's Harts Local Grocers Mark's Pizzeria Wegmans Genesee Brewing Company Research and education University of Rochester Eastman School of Music Medical Center Rochester Institute of Technology Center for Urban Entrepreneurship Rochester City School District Rochester Academy Charter School Aquinas Institute Monroe Community College Rochester Area Colleges Other Democrat and Chronicle Rochester Police Department List of tallest buildings in Rochester, New York Hickey Freeman Bausch & Lomb Eastman Kodak Xerox French's Rochester Products (defunct) Midtown Plaza (defunct) McCurdy's B. Forman Co. Sibley's (defunct) Rochester Metro Area - Monroe County - Western New York - Finger Lakes - State of New York Coordinates: 43°9′27.63″N 77°36′5.18″W﻿ / ﻿43.1576750°N 77.6014389°W﻿ / 43.1576750; -77.6014389 Authority control WorldCat Identities BNF: cb13903120r (data) GND: 1040062-X ISNI: 0000 0001 2189 390X LCCN: n81032860 SUDOC: 13530654X VIAF: 154776910 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eastman_School_of_Music&oldid=871131457" Categories: 1921 establishments in New York (state) Eastman School of Music Education in Rochester, New York Educational institutions established in 1921 Music of Rochester, New York Music schools in New York (state) Tourist attractions in Rochester, New York Universities and colleges in Monroe County, New York Hidden categories: CS1: Julian–Gregorian uncertainty Instances of Infobox university using image size Commons category link is locally defined Coordinates on Wikidata Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with SUDOC identifiers Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Беларуская Deutsch Español فارسی Français Italiano עברית Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Simple English اردو 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 29 November 2018, at 03:47 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
