Exclusive interview: Bruce Springsteen on how Donald Trump won over his blue-collar fans | The Sunday Times Magazine | The Sunday Times Subscription Notification We have noticed that there is an issue with your subscription billing details. Please update your billing details here Please update your billing information The subscription details associated with this account need to be updated. Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your subscription. Your subscription will end shortly Please update your billing details here to continue enjoying your access to the most informative and considered journalism in the UK. We’ve updated our comments.Click here to see moreTap here to see moreTap here to see moreDismiss Accessibility LinksSkip to content Monday December 3 2018 SubscribeLog in Read the full article Free for 30 days Start your free trial Exclusive interview: Bruce Springsteen on how Donald Trump won over his blue-collar fans He’s a staunch Democrat, yet his working-class audience has embraced the Republican president. Bruce Springsteen tells Nick Rufford how Trump got under their skin The Boss in his dressing room mirror on Broadway, which is adorned with old photos of John Lennon, Elvis Presley, James Dean, the E Street Band and his familyDANNY CLINCH The Sunday Times, December 2 2018, 12:01am Donald Trump’s most dangerous opponent may not be a politician, but a blue-collar rocker called Bruce Springsteen who shares millions of the same supporters as the Republican president, and also understands what makes grassroots America tick. So Trump should be pleasantly surprised to learn that Springsteen, a long-standing Democrat who campaigned for Barack Obama, believes the Donald is heading for a second term in the White House. The president has a flair for winning over working-class voters that the Democrats can’t rival, the singer admits. In short, Trump was born to run, and may be unstoppable. “I don’t see anyone out there at the moment … the man who can beat Trump, or the woman who can beat Trump,” Springsteen says. “You need someone who can… Want to read more? Subscribe now and get unlimited digital access on web and our smartphone and tablet apps, free for your first month. Start your free trial United States Donald Trump Global politics Politics Music You are currently logged out Get one month’s free unlimited access Unlock quality journalism on the topics that you decide matter most.Start your trial Keep up to date using Android and iOS apps for Smartphone and Tablet Get The International Pack for free for your first 30 days for unlimited Smartphone and Tablet access.Start your free trial Already a member? Log in Back to top Get in touch Contact us Help The Times Editorial Complaints The Sunday Times Editorial Complaints Place an announcement Classified advertising Display advertising The Times corrections The Sunday Times corrections More from The Times and The Sunday Times The Times e-paper The Sunday Times e-paper Times Currency Services The Sunday Times Wine Club The Times Academy Times Print Gallery The Times Archive Times Crossword Club Sunday Times Driving Times+ The Sunday Times Rich List Insider City Guides Good University Guide Schools Guide Newsletters Best Places to Live Best Places to Stay Announcements Times Appointments Podcasts Encounters Dating © Times Newspapers Limited 2018. Registered in England No. 894646. Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF. Privacy & cookie policy Licensing Cookie settings Sitemap Topics Commissioning terms Terms and conditions Subscribe to get one month’s free unlimited access Log inRegister Already a subscriber or registered access user? Login
