Family tree - Wikipedia Family tree From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Family tree (disambiguation). For information on creating and editing family trees for display on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Family trees Example of a family tree, showing three generations of the Kennedy Family Example of a family tree Family tree displaying an ancestor chart of Sigmund Christoph, Graf von Zeil und Trauchburg Ahnenblatt family tree Family tree showing the relationship of each person to the orange person, including cousins and gene share. Contents 1 Family history representations 1.1 Fan chart 2 Graph theory 3 Notable examples 4 Other uses 5 See also 6 References 7 External links Family history representations[edit] Genealogical data can be represented in several formats, for example as a pedigree or ancestry chart. Family trees are often presented with the oldest generations at the top and the newer generations at the bottom. An ancestry chart, which is a tree showing the ancestors of an individual, will more closely resemble a tree in shape, being wider at the top than the bottom. In some ancestry charts, an individual appears on the left and his or her ancestors appear to the right. A descendancy chart, which depicts all the descendants of an individual will be narrowest at the top. Family trees can have many themes. One might encompass all direct descendants of a single figure, or all known ancestors of a living person. Another might include all members of a particular surname (e.g. male-line descendants). Yet another approach is to construct a tree including all holders of a certain office, such as kings of Germany. This relies on dynastic marriage to hold together the links between dynasties. The image of the tree probably originated with one in medieval art of the Tree of Jesse,[1] used to illustrate the Genealogy of Christ in terms of a prophecy of Isaiah (Isaiah 11:1). Possibly the first non-Biblical use, and the first to show full family relationships rather than a purely patrilineal scheme, was that involving family trees of the classical gods in Boccaccio's Genealogia deorum gentilium ("On the Genealogy of the Gods of the Gentiles"), whose first version dates to 1360.[citation needed] Fan chart[edit] One technique is a "fan chart", which features a half circle chart with concentric rings: the person of interest is the inner circle, the second circle is divided in two (each side is one parent), the third circle is divided in four, and so forth. Fan charts depict paternal and maternal ancestors. Graph theory[edit] While family trees are depicted as trees, family relations do not in general form a tree in the sense of graph theory, since distant relatives can mate, so a person can have a common ancestor on their mother's and father's side. However, because a parent must be born before their child is born, a person cannot be their own ancestor, and thus there are no loops, so ancestry forms a directed acyclic graph. The graphs of matrilineal descent ("mother" relationships between women) and patrilineal descent ("father" relationships between men) are trees however. Assuming no common ancestor, an ancestry chart is a perfect binary tree, as each person has exactly one mother and one father, for two parents; these thus have a regular structure. A descendancy chart, on the other hand, does not in general have a regular structure, as a person can have any number of children, or none at all. Notable examples[edit] The longest family tree in the world is that of the Chinese philosopher and educator Confucius (551–479 BC), and he is the descendant of King Tang (1675–1646 BC). The tree spans more than 80 generations from him, and includes more than 2 million members. An international effort involving more than 450 branches around the world was started in 1998 to retrace and revise this family tree. A new edition of the Confucius genealogy was printed in September 2009 by the Confucius Genealogy Compilation Committee, to coincide with the 2560th anniversary of the birth of the Chinese thinker. This latest edition is expected to include some 1.3 million living members who are scattered around the world today.[2] There are extensive genealogies for the ruling dynasties of China, but these do not form a single, unified family tree; and it is unclear at which point(s) the most ancient historical figures named become mythological. In Japan, the ancestry of the Imperial Family is traced back to the mythological origins of Japan. The connection to persons from the established historical record begins in the mid-first millennium AD. Another very old and extensive tree is that of the Lurie lineage—which includes Sigmund Freud and Martin Buber—and traces back to Jehiel Lurie, a 13th-century rabbi in Brest-Litovsk, and from there to Rashi and purportedly back to the legendary King David, as documented by Neil Rosenstein in his book The Lurie Legacy.[3] The 1999 edition of the Guinness Book of Records recorded the Lurie family in the "longest lineage" category as oldest-known living family in the world today.[4] The Biblical genealogies of Jesus also claim descent from the House of David; covering a period of approximately 1000 years. In the Torah and Old Testament, genealogies are provided for many biblical persons, including a record of the descendants of Adam. According to the Torah, the Kohanim are decended from Aaron. Genetic testing performed at the Technion has shown that modern Kohanim share common Y-chromosome origins, although there is no complete family tree of the Kohanim. In the Islamic world, claimed descent from the prophet Mohammed greatly enhanced the status of political and religious leaders. New dynasties often used claims of such descent to help establish their legitimacy. In Europe, the pedigree of Niall Noígíallach would be a contender for the longest, through Conn of the Hundred Battles (fl. 123 AD)[citation needed]; in the legendary history of Ireland he is further descended from Breogán, and ultimately from Adam, through the sons of Noah. Many noble and aristocratic families of European and West-Asian origin can reliably trace their ancestry back as far as the mid to late first millennium AD; some claiming undocumented descent from Classical Antiquity or mythological ancestors. Before the Dark Ages, in the Greco-Roman world, some reliable pedigrees dated back perhaps at least as far as the first half of the first millennium BC; with claimed or mythological origins reaching back further. Roman clan and family lineages played an important part in the structure of their society, and were the basis of their intricate system of personal names. However, there was a break in the continuity of records-keeping at the end of Classical Antiquity. Records of the lines of succession of the Popes and the Eastern Roman Emperors through this transitional period have survived, but these are not continuous genealogical histories of single families. In Africa, the ruling dynasty of Ethiopia claimed descent from King Solomon via the Queen of Sheba. The genealogy of Ancient Egyptian ruling dynasties was recorded from the beginnings of the Pharaonic era circa 3000 BC, to the end of the Ptolomaic Kingdom; although this is not a record of one continuously-linked family lineage, and surviving records are incomplete. In some pre-contact Native American civilizations, genealogical records of ruling and priestly families were kept, some of which extended over at least several centuries. In many human cultures clan and tribal associations are based on claims of common ancestry; although detailed documentation of those origins is often very limited. Other uses[edit] The author Pete Frame is notable for having produced "family trees" of rock bands. In this instance, the entries represent membership of certain groups, and personnel changes within them, rather than family relationships. Several books have been produced with his family trees,[5] which in turn have led to a BBC television series about them, including interviews from the bands depicted in the trees.[6] See also[edit] Ahnentafel Genealogical numbering systems Genealogy software Genogram List of family trees Pedigree chart Tree of life (biology) WikiTree References[edit] ^ Simon Julian Gilmour (2000) Daz Sint Noch Ungelogeniu Wort: A Literary and Linguistic Commentary on the Gurnemanz Episode in Book III of Wolfram's Parzival. Universitätsverlag Winter, 2000. p.64 ^ Confucius family tree has two million members from China Daily, unknown date, updated February 16, 2008 ^ Neil Rosenstein, Ranan R. Lurie. The Lurie Legacy: The House of Davidic Royal Descent. ISBN 978-1-886223-17-2. ^ Bill Gladstone (October 24, 2004). "The oldest family in the world". JTA. ^ "Amazon - Even More Rock Family trees". Retrieved 20 September 2012. ^ "BBC Four : Rock Family Trees". Retrieved 20 September 2012. External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Family trees. Family Tree Templates – Examples of genealogy castro Family Tree Online Templates – Free Online Family Tree Free utility to generate interactive family trees using Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) for blog-posts and other Web pages – SVG Family-Tree Generator (v5.0). Photo Family Tree Templates 2018 – Free Photo Family Tree Templates 2018 v t e Royal or noble family trees Monarchies by region Africa Ethiopia Madagascar Egypt (House of Muhammad Ali) Tunisia Americas Aztec Brazil Mexico Asia Brunei Cambodia China Ancient Early Middle Late India Mughal Mughal-Mongol Iran Pre-Islamic: Achaemenid Arsacid Sasanian post-Islamic dynasties Modern: Safavid Afsharid Zand Qajar Pahlavi Japan Jerusalem Korea Silla Goryeo Joseon Kuwait Malaysia Mongolia Borjigin Yuan Ilkhanate Timurid Myanmar Ottoman simplified Anatolian Seljuks Sri Lanka Thailand Vietnam Europe Aragon Belgium Bohemia Bosnia Castile Croatia Denmark France simplified House of Bonaparte Greece Hungary Leon Luxembourg Naples Navarre Netherlands Norway Orange-Nassau Poland Portugal Holy Roman Empire/Germany House of Habsburg (incl. Holy Roman Empire after 1440) Romania Russia Serbia Medieval: Vlastimirović Vojislavljević Vukanović Nemanjić Lazarević Branković Modern: Karađorđević Obrenović Sicily Spain Sweden United Kingdom England simplified) (Wessex Mercia Northumbria Scotland Wales after 1603 Visigoths Oceania Bora Bora Hawaii Kamehameha Lunalilo Kalākaua Huahine Mangareva Samoa Malietoa Tui Manua Tupua Tamasese Tahiti Tonga Dukes, princes and counts Norfolk Artois Brittany Aquitaine Brabant Lorraine Burgundy Bourbon Condé Monaco Conti Holland Flanders Swabia Lithuania Jagiello La Fayette Hainault Noble families Borgia Braganza Confucius Farnese Frankopan Fujiwara Gonzaga Von Graben De Graeff Kabužić Medici Plantagenet Šubić (Princes of Bribir) Visconti Windsor York Zrinski Monarchies of the ancient world Egypt 1st 4th 11th 12th 18th 19th 20th 21st 25th 26th Near East Yamhad Israel/Judah Georgia Iberia Bagrationi of Georgia Kartli Kakheti Imereti Greece and Hellenistic World House of Atreus Erechtheids of Athens Alcmaeonids of Athens Heraclidae Kings of Sparta Argead dynasty Ptolemies Attalid Seleucids Rome Roman Emperors Caecilii Metelli Scipio–Paullus–Gracchus Julio-Claudian dynasty Severan dynasty Flavian dynasty Constantinian dynasty Valentinian dynasty Eastern Roman/Byzantine Emperors v t e Religious family trees Biblical Book of Genesis Descendants of Noah Abraham's family tree Book of Ruth Naomi to David Books of Kings Kings of Israel and Judah New Testament Genealogy of Jesus Islamic Muhammad Family tree of Muhammad Rashidun Abu Bakr Umar Uthman Ali (Dynastic descendants Fourteen Infallibles) Caliphal Umayyads Hafizi-Isma'ili Polytheistic Babylonian gods Greek gods Agamemnon Mahabharata Māori gods Norse gods v t e Family History Household Nuclear family Extended family Conjugal family Immediate family Matrifocal family Blended family Dysfunctional family Polyfidelitous families Skipped generation families First-degree relatives Parent father mother Child son daughter Sibling brother sister Second-degree relatives Grandparent Grandchild Aunt Uncle Niece and nephew Third-degree relatives Great-grandparent Great-grandchild Grandnephew and grandniece Cousin Family-in-law Spouse wife husband Parents-in-law Siblings-in-law Son-in-law Daughter-in-law Stepfamily Stepfather Stepmother Stepchild Stepsibling Kinship Australian Aboriginal kinship Adoption Affinity Consanguinity Disownment Divorce Estrangement Fictive kinship Marriage Nurture kinship Lineage Bilateral descent Common ancestor Family name Family tree Genealogy Heirloom Heredity Inheritance Lineal descendant Matrilineality Patrilineality Pedigree chart Progenitor Relationships Agape (parental love) Eros (marital love) Filial piety Storge (familial love) Holidays Mother's Day U.S. Father's Day Father-Daughter Day Siblings Day National Grandparents Day Parents' Day Children's Day Family Day Canada American Family Day National Family Week UK Related Wedding anniversary Sociology of the family Museum of Motherhood Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Family_tree&oldid=868513577" Categories: Genealogy Charts Family trees Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2009 Articles with unsourced statements from October 2015 Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Azərbaycanca Brezhoneg Català Čeština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 हिन्दी Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Қазақша Latina Latviešu Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 ଓଡ଼ିଆ Polski Português Română Русский Саха тыла Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska தமிழ் Татарча/tatarça Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 12 November 2018, at 18:04 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
