Federation of North Texas Area Universities | Toulouse Graduate School Skip to main content Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search Call us Contact Us UNT Map Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter People Contact Us FAQ Quicklinks Back MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect University Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT University of North Texas Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety More Info Learn more about UNT’s 125 exceptional advanced degree programs, many nationally and internationally ranked. Request More Info Tour Our Campus Take a tour of UNT’s beautiful campus and see why we’re the perfect place to take your education and career further. Take a tour International Find all the information you need for applying to Toulouse Graduate School from outside the United States. International Info Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Support Support services include Thesis/Dissertation Boot Camp, Professional Development, 3MT competition, and more. Support Services Graduation You've made it! Find all the resources for graduating and writing your thesis or dissertation. Graduation Teaching UNT provides resources to make your graduate assistantship as successful as possible with programs such as CLEAR. More Resources Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Forms Easily find faculty and staff specific forms for various academic needs. If not logged in you will be asked to log in to view the forms. View Forms Defense Notices If your student is defending their dissertation or thesis fill out this form and the defense will automatically be added to the events calendar. Defense Notification Resources Additional resources for UNT faculty and staff, such as staff workshops, job openings, and links to faculty success. More Resources Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter UNT Alumni The Alumni Association engages the institution’s 407,000 alumni in the life of the university and to support alumni throughout every stage of life. Alumni Association Spotlights View the profiles of success and stories from UNT alumni who have graduated through the Toulouse Graduate School. Alumni Success Support Our alumni give back through volunteer hours, expertise and giving, among others. Your support helps ensure a top education for our students. Give Now People Contact Us FAQ MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Search form Search Search Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ Toulouse Graduate School You are here Home Newly Admitted & Current Students Federation of North Texas Area Universities Federation of North Texas Area Universities The Federation of North Texas Area Universities, established in 1968 with guidance from the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board, enables the sharing of resources between the University of North Texas at Denton (UNT), Texas Woman's University at Denton and Texas A&M University-Commerce. This special agreement allows students to expand their course offerings while receiving credit and paying tuition at UNT. Any UNT graduate student admitted to a master's or doctoral degree program or pursuing certification may cross-register in graduate level courses at TWU or A&M-Commerce that are being used toward their current degree program. Students must have the approval of their department and verify that TWU and/or A&M-Commerce does not have restrictions on the course. Students in select graduate programs at the 3 participating institutions may complete a portion of their graduate work at either or both of the other 2, although a single institution grants the degree. The University of North Texas grants the following degrees that participate in the Federation: Biochemistry and Molecular Biology – Ph.D. Counseling Psychology – Ph.D. Interdisciplinary Studies - M.A./M.S. Language and Literacy Studies – as a concentration under the Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction. Literacy Education - as a specialization under the M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction Sociology – Ph.D. Special Education – Ph.D. In addition, 13 program committees have been formed to encourage cooperative activities between the participating universities. Cross-Registering in a Federation Course: Are you a UNT student interested in taking a course through the Federation? Please read through the additional information for UNT students for details, and then submit the form to enroll in a Federation Course. If you are a TWU or A&M-Commerce student wishing to enroll at UNT through the Federation, please read the additional information for TWU or A&M-Commerce students and contact the appropriate Federation Representative to start the process. Click here for the Cross-Registration FAQ. Additional Cross-Registration Opportunities at Universities Center at Dallas: UNT participates in an educational consortium with University of Texas at Arlington and Texas A&M University-Commerce for certain programs. Learn more about cross-registration opportunities at Universities Center at Dallas. Top New and Current Students Graduate Student Orientation Assistantship Benefits and Teaching Resources Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Student Support Services and Workshops Graduation Information Graduation Deadlines Forms Travel Grants Milestones for Graduate Students Academic Resources Federation of North Texas Area Universities Registration Information Update your application Career Services FAQ Main Menu Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ University Links MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Email & Phone GraduateSchool@unt.edu 940-565-2383 Toulouse Graduate School 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 1155 Union Circle #305459 (USPS) 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 354 (UPS/FedEx) Denton, Texas 76203-5459 Visitor Information Call us Email Us UNT Map Apply now Schedule a tour Get more info Disclaimer | AA/EOE/ADA | Privacy | Electronic Accessibility | Required Links | UNT Home ©2018 University of North Texas Required Links
