Funding Your Graduate Education  | Toulouse Graduate School Skip to main content Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search Call us Contact Us UNT Map Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter People Contact Us FAQ Quicklinks Back MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect University Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT University of North Texas Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety More Info Learn more about UNT’s 125 exceptional advanced degree programs, many nationally and internationally ranked. Request More Info Tour Our Campus Take a tour of UNT’s beautiful campus and see why we’re the perfect place to take your education and career further. Take a tour International Find all the information you need for applying to Toulouse Graduate School from outside the United States. International Info Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Support Support services include Thesis/Dissertation Boot Camp, Professional Development, 3MT competition, and more. Support Services Graduation You've made it! Find all the resources for graduating and writing your thesis or dissertation. Graduation Teaching UNT provides resources to make your graduate assistantship as successful as possible with programs such as CLEAR. More Resources Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Forms Easily find faculty and staff specific forms for various academic needs. If not logged in you will be asked to log in to view the forms. View Forms Defense Notices If your student is defending their dissertation or thesis fill out this form and the defense will automatically be added to the events calendar. Defense Notification Resources Additional resources for UNT faculty and staff, such as staff workshops, job openings, and links to faculty success. More Resources Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter UNT Alumni The Alumni Association engages the institution’s 407,000 alumni in the life of the university and to support alumni throughout every stage of life. Alumni Association Spotlights View the profiles of success and stories from UNT alumni who have graduated through the Toulouse Graduate School. Alumni Success Support Our alumni give back through volunteer hours, expertise and giving, among others. Your support helps ensure a top education for our students. Give Now People Contact Us FAQ MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Search form Search Search Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ Toulouse Graduate School You are here Home Future Students Funding Your Graduate Education Funding Your Graduate Education At UNT, you can expect a high-quality graduate degree at an affordable cost. Money magazine has named us a Best College, and we’ve been listed as one of America’s Best College Buys® for 22 consecutive years. Around 75% of UNT students receive financial aid and scholarships totaling more than $380 million a year. You can visit UNT’s Student Financial Services (SFS) to calculate your tuition and to learn more about tuition and fees, including special cases such as excessive hours, repeat courses, auditing courses and more. Financial Aid and Loans Financial Aid makes it possible for thousands of students to attend UNT. Learn the basics of financial aid, including eligibility, financial need determination, and how to apply using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). We encourage all UNT students to complete the FAFSA each year to ensure they are prepared to utilize potential Federal program eligibility. To be considered for financial aid, the FAFSA application must be submitted each year and is available starting October 1 for the following year. Early application annually ensures the best opportunity to compete for available funding. Dates to remember: Oct. 1 – FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) opens. Apply early for the most grant and loan options. Jan. 15 – Submit your FAFSA by this priority date for fall and spring semesters. To find averages on borrowed amounts, reported salaries and estimates of loan repayments, visit GradSense. Fellowships and Scholarships The Toulouse Graduate School offers a limited amount of fellowships and scholarships. These range from $500 a semester to $34,000 a year, including health benefits. Learn more about graduate awards Teaching and Research Assistantships Assistantships are available on a limited basis in most graduate programs. These positions provide funds for many master’s and doctoral students. Each department or program has its own requirements and expectations for assistants and fellows. Learn more about assistantships and benefits Tuition Benefit Program UNT’s Tuition Benefit Program (TBP) provides supplemental tuition benefits to eligible Graduate Assistants. Learn more about TBP eligibility and requirements International Students International students are not eligible to receive federal financial aid (applied for through the FAFSA). However, you may apply for UNT-International Admissions scholarships and grants, as well as teaching and research assistantships, and any of the scholarships or fellowships offered through the Toulouse Graduate School. Veterans Services As a military service member or veteran, you can use your GI Bill or Hazlewood benefits to help pay for college expenses. Learn more about Veteran's Services and benefits Student Employment As a student at UNT, you are eligible to apply to on-campus, hourly student positions through the Career Center. Many of these positions are College Work Study eligible. Learn more about student employment Emergency Loans There are several emergency loans offered across campus that are intended to help students remain enrolled. These loans typically require repayment within the same semester. Learn more about Student Financial Services' Short-Term Loans or the Student Money Management Center's Memorial Loan programs. Apply now Talk to an Advisor Request Info for U.S. Domestic Students Request Info for International Students Top For Future Students Graduate Admissions Traditional Admissions International Admissions Other Graduate Opportunities Update Your Application Our Programs Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Teaching and Research Assistantships Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants & Awards Tuition Benefit Program Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety Main Menu Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ University Links MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Email & Phone GraduateSchool@unt.edu 940-565-2383 Toulouse Graduate School 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 1155 Union Circle #305459 (USPS) 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 354 (UPS/FedEx) Denton, Texas 76203-5459 Visitor Information Call us Email Us UNT Map Apply now Schedule a tour Get more info Disclaimer | AA/EOE/ADA | Privacy | Electronic Accessibility | Required Links | UNT Home ©2018 University of North Texas Required Links
