Future Students | School of Journalism Skip to main content Home Main menu » Home Future Students » Future Students Why the Mayborn Experienced Faculty Degree Programs Find Success with Your Degree Paying for College Admissions Undergraduate » Undergraduate Concentrations » Concentrations Advertising Broadcast & Digital Journalism Digital & Print Journalism Photo Journalism Public Relations Teacher Certification Sports Journalism Certificate Minor Orientation Advising Scholarships Internships Equipment Checkout Graduate » Graduate Concentrations » Concentrations Master of Science in Digital Communication Analytics Master of Arts in Journalism & Master of Journalism Interdisciplinary Ph.D. Graduate Certificate in Narrative Journalism Graduate Certificate in Interactive & Virtual Digital Communication Graduate Certificate in Public Relations Admissions Advising Internships Graduate Assistantships Scholarships Master’s Exam Thesis Information Equipment Checkout Student Media » Student Media SWOOP Hatch Visuals Ten Spurs Special Events » Special Events Mad Women Seeing and Believing Women With Words: Female Pioneers in Journalism First Amendment: Under Siege? 100 Years of Pulitzer People » People Dean's Office Graduate Institute Photojournalism Print/Digital Broadcast Public Relations Advertising Technology & Operations Advising Office North Texas Daily Board of Advisors Alumni » Alumni Alumni Profiles Events Alumni Mentor Network Alumni Organizations About Us » About Us About Frank W. and Sue Mayborn Support Mayborn Awards and Accomplishments Studios and Labs Board of Advisors Mayborn Alumni Mentor Network Accreditation and Accountability Annual Report Careers Contact Us Support Mayborn Search form Search School of Journalism MyUNT EagleConnect Blackboard People Maps Calendars Apply Now Frank W. and Sue Mayborn School of Journalism Main menu Home Future Students Why the Mayborn Experienced Faculty Degree Programs Find Success with Your Degree Paying for College Admissions Undergraduate Graduate Student Media Special Events Mad Women Seeing and Believing Women With Words: Female Pioneers in Journalism First Amendment: Under Siege? 100 Years of Pulitzer People Alumni About Us Support Mayborn Placeholder block Future Students Why the Mayborn Experienced Faculty Degree Programs Find Success with Your Degree Paying for College Admissions Take a tour Apply to Mayborn Support Mayborn Future Students Where Information meets Innovation In a media landscape that is ever changing, the Frank W. and Sue Mayborn School of Journalism at the University of North Texas offers you the foundation you need to tell compelling stories and the experience you need to master the latest technology. You’ll attend courses taught by award-winning journalists and receive access to internships in the nation’s fifth largest media market, making the Mayborn School of Journalism the right choice for students who want to succeed. Join a community of storytellers for the digital age at the Mayborn School of Journalism. In a media landscape that is ever changing, the Frank W. and Sue Mayborn School of Journalism at the University of North Texas offers you the foundation you need to tell compelling stories and the experience you need to master the latest technology. Access to internships in the fifth largest media market in the country, courses taught by national award-winning journalists and opportunities to gain hands-on experience in writing, advertising, broadcasting, photography and digital media make the Mayborn School of Journalism the right choice for students who want to succeed. Join a community of storytellers for the digital age at the Mayborn School of Journalism. The Mayborn School of Journalism offers: Sycamore Hall is home to the Mayborn School of Journalism and student media entities such as the North Texas Daily in print, online, TV and radio, plus the student-run photo agency Hatch Visuals. A legacy of excellence with notable alumni, including 14 Pulitzer Prize winners or finalists. Support to achieve your goals through a variety of departmental scholarships awarded annually. State-of-the-art technology and classroom labs with the latest software applications, including a Multimedia Reporting classroom, Visual Journalism Lab and Broadcast News Lab. Exposure to journalism around the world through study abroad programs in England, Japan and Mexico. The critical thinking and writing skills needed for a variety of career fields. Connections and networking through the Advertising Club, UNT National Association of Black Journalists, UNT National Association of Hispanic Journalists and other student organizations. An opportunity to interact with acclaimed writers such as Katherine Boo, Charles Johnson, Sebastian Junger and Gilbert King at the annual Mayborn Literary Nonfiction Conference. “Though I’m a broadcast major, I consider myself to be a visual storyteller in all forms. Being a student at Mayborn, I am able to explore these creative avenues and build upon my skills to prepare me for my professional career.” Joseph Valdez Broadcast Journalism Visit Us Sycamore Hall Room 206 Mail Us Frank W. and Sue Mayborn Mayborn School of Journalism University of North Texas 1155 Union Circle #311460 Denton, TX 76203-5017 USA Package Delivery (UPS, FedEx): Mayborn School of Journalism - SYMR 206 Mayborn Graduate Institute of Journalism – SYMR 205 University of North Texas 307 S. Avenue B Denton, TX 76201 Contact Us 940-565-2205 journalism@unt.edu Site last updated on November 30, 2018 Disclaimer| AA/EOE/ADA| Privacy| Electronic Accessibility| State of Texas Online| Emergency Preparedness| THECB Online Resume System Student Consumer Information| UNT Compliance Hotline| Governors Committee on People with Disabilities| Texas Veterans Portal| UNT Home Site last updated on November 30, 2018 | Important Links
