Georgians - Wikipedia Georgians From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search For other uses, see Georgian (disambiguation). See also: Demographics of Georgia (country) Georgians ქართველები Kartvelebi Flag of Georgia Total population 4 million[a] Regions with significant populations Georgia c. 3,223,600[1][a] Russia ~157,803[2] Iran ~100,000[3] Turkey ~100,000[4][5] Ukraine ~34,199[6] Greece ~27,400[7][8] Italy ~14,045[9] France 10,000–17,145[10][11] Azerbaijan ~9,900[12] Canada ~4,775[13] Languages Georgian and other Kartvelian languages Religion Predominantly Eastern Orthodox Christian (Georgian Orthodox Church)[14] Minority: Catholicism, Islam, Judaism a. ^ The total figure is merely an estimation; sum of all the referenced populations. The Georgians or Kartvelians (/kɑːrtvɛlɪɑːnz/; Georgian: ქართველები, translit.: kartvelebi, pronounced [kʰɑrtʰvɛlɛbi]) are a nation and Caucasian ethnic group native to Georgia. Large Georgian communities are also present throughout Russia, Turkey, Greece, Iran, Ukraine, United States, and to a lesser extent throughout the European Union. Georgians arose from the ancient Subarian, Colchian and Iberian civilizations. After Christianization of Iberia by Saint Nino they became one of the first who embraced the faith of Jesus in the early 4th century and now the majority of Georgians are Eastern Orthodox Christians and most follow their national autocephalous Georgian Orthodox Church. There are also small Georgian Catholic and Muslim communities in Tbilisi and Adjara, as well as a significant number of irreligious Georgians. A complex process of nation formation has resulted in a diverse set of geographic subgroups of Georgians, each with its characteristic traditions, manners, dialects and, in the case of Svans and Mingrelians, own regional languages. The Georgian language, with its own unique writing system and extensive written tradition, which goes back to the 5th century, is the official language of Georgia as well as the language of education of all Georgians living in the country. Located in the Caucasus, on the crossroads of predominantly Christian Europe and Muslim Western Asia, Georgian people formed a unified Kingdom of Georgia in the early 11th century and inaugurated the Georgian Golden Age, a height of political and cultural power of the nation. This lasted until being weakened by Mongol invasions, as well as internal divisions following the death of George V the Brilliant, the last of the great kings of Georgia. Thereafter and throughout the early modern period, Georgians became politically fractured and were dominated by the Ottoman Empire and successive dynasties of Iran. To ensure the survival of his polity, in 1783, Heraclius II of the eastern Georgian kingdom of Kartli-Kakheti forged an alliance with the Russian Empire. The Russo-Georgian alliance, however, backfired as Russia was unwilling to fulfill the terms of the treaty, proceeding to annex the troubled kingdom in 1801, as well as the western Georgian kingdom of Imereti in 1810. Russian rule over Georgia was eventually acknowledged in various peace treaties with Iran and the Ottomans, and the remaining Georgian territories were absorbed by the Russian Empire in a piecemeal fashion in the course of the 19th century. Georgians briefly reasserted their independence from Russia under the First Georgian Republic from 1918 to 1921, and finally, in 1991 from the Soviet Union. Contents 1 Etymology 2 Anthropology 3 Origins 4 Genetics 5 Culture 5.1 Language and linguistic subdivisions 5.2 Religion 5.3 Cuisine 6 Geographic subdivisions and subethnic groups 6.1 Geographical subdivisions 6.1.1 Outside modern Georgia 6.1.2 Extinct Georgian Subdivisions 7 See also 8 References Etymology[edit] Further information: Name of Georgia (country) Georgians call themselves Kartvelebi (ქართველები), their land Sakartvelo (საქართველო), and their language Kartuli (ქართული). According to The Georgian Chronicles, the ancestor of the Kartvelian people was Kartlos, the great-grandson of the Biblical Japheth. However, scholars agree that the word is derived from the Karts, the latter being one of the proto-Georgian tribes that emerged as a dominant group in ancient times.[15] Ancient Greeks (Homer, Herodotus, Strabo, Plutarch etc.) and Romans (Titus Livius, Cornelius Tacitus, etc.) referred to western Georgians as Colchians and eastern Georgians as Iberians.[16] The term "Georgians" is derived from the country of Georgia. In the past, lore based theories were given by the traveller Jacques de Vitry, who explained the name's origin by the popularity of St. George amongst Georgians,[17] while traveller Jean Chardin thought that "Georgia" came from Greek γεωργός ("tiller of the land"), as when the Greeks came into the region (in Colchis[15]) they encountered a developed agricultural society.[15] However, as Prof. Alexander Mikaberidze adds, these explanations for the word Georgians/Georgia are rejected by the scholarly community, who point to the Persian word gurğ/gurğān ("wolf"[18]) as the root of the word.[19] Starting with the Persian word gurğ/gurğān, the word was later adopted in numerous other languages, including Slavic and West European languages.[15][20] This term itself might have been established through the ancient Iranian appellation of the near-Caspian region, which was referred to as Gorgan ("land of the wolves"[21]).[15] Anthropology[edit] In opinion of Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, a German professor of medicine and a member of the British Royal Society, who came to be considered one of the founders of the discipline of anthropology, Georgians are the most beautiful race of people. Caucasian variety – I have taken the name of this variety from Mount Caucasus, both because its neighborhood, and especially its southern slope, produces the most beautiful race of men, I mean the Georgian; and because all physiological reasons converge to this, that in that region, if anywhere, it seems we ought with the greatest probability to place the autochthones (original members) of mankind.[22] Origins[edit] Most historians and scholars of Georgia as well as anthropologists, archaeologists and linguists tend to agree that the ancestors of modern Georgians inhabited the southern Caucasus and northern Anatolia since the Neolithic period.[23] Scholars usually refer to them as Proto-Kartvelian (Proto-Georgians such as Colchians and Iberians) tribes.[24] The Georgian people in antiquity have been known to the ancient Greeks and Romans as Colchians and Iberians.[25][26] East Georgian tribes of Tibarenians-Iberians formed their kingdom in 7th century BCE. However, western Georgian tribes (Moschians, Suanians, Mingrelians and others) established the first Georgian state of Colchis (circa 1350 BCE) before the foundation of the Iberian Kingdom in the east.[27] According to the numerous scholars of Georgia, the formations of these two early Georgian kingdoms of Colchis and Iberia, resulted in the consolidation and uniformity of the Georgian nation.[28] The ancient Jewish chronicle by Josephus mentions Georgians as Iberes who were also called Thobel (Tubal).[29] Diauehi in Assyrian sources and Taochi in Greek lived in the northeastern part of Anatolia, a region that was part of Georgia. This ancient tribe is considered by many scholars as ancestors of the Georgians. Modern Georgians still refer to this region, which now belongs to present-day Turkey, as Tao-Klarjeti, an ancient Georgian kingdom. Some people there still speak the Georgian language.[30] Colchians in the ancient western Georgian Kingdom of Colchis were another proto-Georgian tribe. They are first mentioned in the Assyrian annals of Tiglath-Pileser I and in the annals of Urartian king Sarduri II, and are also included western Georgian tribe of the Meskhetians.[27][31] Iberians, also known as Tiberians or Tiberanians, lived in the eastern Georgian Kingdom of Iberia.[27] Both Colchians and Iberians played an important role in the ethnic and cultural formation of the modern Georgian nation.[32][33] According to the scholar of the Caucasian studies Cyril Toumanoff: Colchis appears as the first Caucasian State to have achieved the coalescence of the newcomer, Colchis can be justly regarded as not a proto-Georgian, but a Georgian (West Georgian) kingdom ... It would seem natural to seek the beginnings of Georgian social history in Colchis, the earliest Georgian formation.[34] Genetics[edit] Further information: Genetic history of the Caucasus Georgian peasant in Mestia, c. 1888 A study of human genetics by Battaglia, Fornarino, al-Zahery, et al. (2009) suggests that Georgians have the highest percentage of Haplogroup G (30.3%) among the general population recorded in any country. Georgians' Y-DNA also belongs to Haplogroup J2 (31.8%), Haplogroup R1a (10.6%), and Haplogroup R1b (9.1%).[35] Culture[edit] Main article: Culture of Georgia (country) Language and linguistic subdivisions[edit] Main article: Georgian language Georgian is the primary language for Georgians of all provenance, including those who speak other Kartvelian languages: Svans, Mingrelians and the Laz. The language known today as Georgian is a traditional language of the eastern part of the country which has spread to most of the present-day Georgia after the post-Christianization centralization in the first millennium CE. Today, Georgians regardless of their ancestral region use Georgian as their official language. The regional languages Svan and Mingrelian are languages of the west that were traditionally spoken in the pre-Christian Kingdom of Colchis, but later lost importance as the unified Kingdom of Georgia emerged. Their decline is largely due to the capital of the unified kingdom, Tbilisi, being in the eastern part of the country known as Kingdom of Iberia effectively making the language of the east an official language of the Georgian monarch. All of these languages comprise the Kartvelian language family along with the related language of the Laz people, which has speakers in both Turkey and Georgia. Georgian dialects include Imeretian, Racha-Lechkhumian, Gurian, Adjarian, Imerkhevian (in Turkey), Kartlian, Kakhetian, Ingilo (in Azerbaijan), Tush, Khevsur, Mokhevian, Pshavian, Fereydan dialect in Iran in Fereydunshahr and Fereydan, Mtiuletian, Meskhetian and Javakhetian dialect. Religion[edit] Main articles: Religion in Georgia (country) and Secularism and irreligion in Georgia The Bagrati Cathedral, The Cathedral of the Dormition, built during the reign of King Bagrat III, one of Georgia's most significant medieval religious buildings returned to its original state in 2012. According to Orthodox tradition, Christianity was first preached in Georgia by the Apostles Simon and Andrew in the 1st century. It became the state religion of Kartli (Iberia) in 337.[36][37] At the same time, in the first centuries C.E., the cult of Mithras, pagan beliefs, and Zoroastrianism were commonly practiced in Georgia.[38] The conversion of Kartli to Christianity is credited to St. Nino of Cappadocia. Christianity gradually replaced all the former religions except Zoroastrianism, which become a second established religion in Iberia after the Peace of Acilisene in 378.[39] The conversion to Christianity eventually placed the Georgians permanently on the front line of conflict between the Islamic and Christian world. Georgians remained mostly Christian despite repeated invasions by Muslim powers, and long episodes of foreign domination. As was true elsewhere, the Christian church in Georgia was crucial to the development of a written language, and most of the earliest written works were religious texts. Medieval Georgian culture was greatly influenced by Eastern Orthodoxy and the Georgian Orthodox Church, which promoted and often sponsored the creation of many works of religious devotion. These included churches and monasteries, works of art such as icons, and hagiographies of Georgian saints. Today, 83.9% of the Georgian population, most of whom are ethnic Georgian, follow Eastern Orthodox Christianity.[40] A sizable Georgian Muslim population exists in Adjara. This autonomous Republic borders Turkey, and was part of the Ottoman Empire for a longer amount of time than other parts of the country. Those Georgian Muslims practice the Sunni Hanafi form of Islam. Islam has however declined in Adjara during the 20th century, due to Soviet anti-religious policies, cultural integration with the national Orthodox majority, and strong missionary efforts by the Georgian Orthodox Church.[41] Islam remains a dominant identity only in the eastern, rural parts of the Republic. In the early modern period, converted Georgian recruits were often used by the Persian and Ottoman Empires for elite military units such as the Mameluks, Qizilbash, and ghulams. The Georgians in Iran are all reportedly Shia Muslims today, while the Georgian minority in Turkey are mostly Sunni Muslim. There is also a small number of Georgian Jews, tracing their ancestors to the Babylonian captivity. In addition to traditional religious confessions, Georgia retains irreligious segments of society, as well as a significant portion of nominally religious individuals who do not actively practice their faith.[42] Cuisine[edit] Georgians having a feast at Supra and Tamada making a toast. Painting by Niko Pirosmani. The Georgian cuisine is specific to the country, but also contains some influences from other European culinary traditions, as well as those from the surrounding Western Asia. Each historical province of Georgia has its own distinct culinary tradition, such as Megrelian, Kakhetian, and Imeretian cuisines. In addition to various meat dishes, Georgian cuisine also offers a variety of vegetarian meals. The importance of both food and drink to Georgian culture is best observed during a Caucasian feast, or supra, when a huge assortment of dishes is prepared, always accompanied by large amounts of wine, and dinner can last for hours. In a Georgian feast, the role of the tamada (toastmaster) is an important and honoured position. In countries of the former Soviet Union, Georgian food is popular due to the immigration of Georgians to other Soviet republics, in particular Russia. In Russia all major cities have many Georgian restaurants and Russian restaurants often feature Georgian food items on their menu.[43] Geographic subdivisions and subethnic groups[edit] Geographical subdivisions[edit] The Georgians have historically been classified into various subgroups based on the geographic region which their ancestors traditionally inhabited. Even if a member of any of these subgroups moves to a different region, they will still be known by the name of their ancestral region. For example, if a Gurian moves to Tbilisi (part of the Kartli region) he will not automatically identify himself as Kartlian despite actually living in Kartli. This may, however, change if substantial amount of time passes. For example, there are some Mingrelians who have lived in the Imereti region for centuries and are now identified as Imeretian or Imeretian-Mingrelians. Main article: Georgian surname Last names from mountainous eastern Georgian provinces (such as Kakheti, etc.) can be distinguished by the suffix –uri (ური), or –uli (ული). Most Svan last names typically end in –ani (ანი), Mingrelian in –ia (ია), -ua (უა), or -ava (ავა), and Laz in –shi (ში). Name Name in Georgian Geographical region Dialect or Language Adjarians აჭარელი achareli Adjara Adjarian dialect Gurians გურული guruli Guria Gurian dialect Imeretians იმერელი imereli Imereti Imeretian dialect Javakhians ჯავახი javakhi Javakheti Javakhian dialect Kakhetians კახელი kakheli Kakheti Kakhetian dialect Kartlians ქართლელი kartleli Kartli Kartlian dialect Khevsurians ხევსური khevsuri Khevsureti Khevsurian dialect Lechkhumians ლეჩხუმელი lechkhumeli Lechkhumi Lechkhumian dialect Megrelians მეგრელი megreli Samegrelo Megrelian language Meskhetians მესხი meskhi Meskheti (Samtskhe) Meskhian dialect Mokhevians მოხევე mokheve Khevi Mokhevian dialect Pshavians ფშაველი pshaveli Pshavi Pshavian dialect Rachians რაჭველი rachveli Racha Rachian dialect Svans სვანი svani Svaneti Svan language Tushs (Chagma) თუში tushi Tusheti Tushetian dialect The 1897 Russian census (which accounted people by language), had Imeretian, Svan and Mingrelian languages separate from Georgian.[44] During the 1926 Soviet census, Svans and Mingrelians were accounted separately from Georgian.[45] Svan and Mingrelian languages are both Kartvelian languages and are closely related to the national Georgian language. Outside modern Georgia[edit] Laz people also may be considered Georgian based on their geographic location and religion. According to the London School of Economics' anthropologist Mathijs Pelkmans,[46] Lazs residing in Georgia frequently identify themselves as "first-class Georgians" to show pride, while considering their Muslim counterparts in Turkey as "Turkified Lazs".[47] Subethnic groups Georgian name Settlement area Language (dialect) Number Difference(s) from mainstream Georgians (other than location) Laz people ლაზი lazi Chaneti (Turkey) Laz language 1.6 million Religion: Muslim majority, Orthodox Minority Fereydani ფერეიდანი Pereidani Fereydan (Iran) Pereidnuli dialect 100,000 +[48] Religion: Muslim[48] Chveneburi ჩვენებური chveneburi Black Sea Region (Turkey) Georgian language 91,000[49]–1,000,000[50] Religion: Muslim[49] Ingiloy people ინგილო ingilo Saingilo Hereti Zaqatala District (Azerbaijan) Ingiloan dialect 12,000 Religion: Muslim majority,[51] Orthodox minority[52] Shavshians შავში shavshi Shavsheti (Turkey) Imerkhevian dialect Klarjians კლარჯი klarji Klarjeti (Turkey) Imerkhevian dialect Extinct Georgian Subdivisions[edit] Throughout history Georgia also has extinct Georgian subdivisions Name Name in Georgian Geographical location Dialect or Language Dvals დვალები dvalebi Russian Federation North Ossetia Dval dialect Ossetic dialect See also[edit] List of Georgians Demographics of Georgia (country) Georgian American Peoples of the Caucasus References[edit] ^ Ethnic Georgians form about 86.8 percent of Georgia's current population of 3,713,804 (2014 census). Data without occupied territories—Abkhazia and Tskhinvali region. ^ Total population by regions and ethnicity ^ "Итоги Всероссийской переписи населения 2010 года в отношении демографических и социально-экономических характеристик отдельных национальностей". Retrieved 21 August 2015. ^ Jump up to: a b Rezvani, Babak (Winter 2009). "The Fereydani Georgian Representation". Anthropology of the Middle East 4 (2): 52–74. doi:10.3167/ame.2009.040205. ^ The Other Languages of Europe: Demographic, Sociolinguistic, and Educational Perspectives, p. 420, at Google Books ^ Ethnic Groups Worldwide: A Ready Reference Handbook, p. 291, at Google Books ^ "Всеукраїнський перепис населення 2001 – English version – Results – Nationality and citizenship – The distribution of the population by nationality and mother tongue – Selection:". Retrieved 21 August 2015. ^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 25 December 2013. Retrieved 2014-06-03.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link) ^ ქართველები საბერძნეთში State Ministry on Diaspora Issues of Georgia ^ [1] ISTAT ^ https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/fr/dossiers-pays/georgie/presentation-de-la-georgie/ ^ http://france.mfa.gov.ge/index.php?lang_id=FRA&sec_id=1226&info_id=24240 ^ http://pop-stat.mashke.org/azerbaijan-ethnic2009.htm ^ [2] 2016 Canadiian Census ^ "საქართველოს მოსახლეობის საყოველთაო აღწერის საბოლოო შედეგები" (PDF). National Statistics Office of Georgia. 28 April 2016. Retrieved 29 April 2016. ^ a b c d e Mikaberidze, Alexander (2015). Historical Dictionary of Georgia (2 ed.). Rowman & Littlefield. p. 3. ISBN 978-1442241466. ^ Braund, David. Georgia in Antiquity: A History of Colchis and Transcaucasian Iberia, 550 BC-AD 562, pp. 17–18 ^ Peradze, Gregory. "The Pilgrims' derivation of the name Georgia". Georgica, Autumn, 1937, nos. 4 & 5, 208–209 ^ Hock, Hans Henrich; Zgusta, Ladislav (1997). Historical, Indo-European, and Lexicographical Studies. Walter de Gruyter. p. 211. ISBN 978-3110128840. ^ Mikaberidze, Alexander (2015). Historical Dictionary of Georgia (2 ed.). Rowman & Littlefield. p. 3. ISBN 978-1442241466. However, such explanations are rejected by the scholarly community, who point to the Persian gurğ/gurğān as the root of the word (...) ^ Boeder; et al. (2002). Philology, typology and language structure. Peter Lang. p. 65. ISBN 978-0820459912. The Russian designation of Georgia (Gruziya) also derives from the Persian gurg. ^ Rapp Jr., Stephen H. (2014). The Sasanian World through Georgian Eyes: Caucasia and the Iranian Commonwealth in Late Antique Georgian Literature. Ashgate Publishing. p. 21. ISBN 978-1472425522. ^ Blumenbach, De generis humani varietate nativa (3rd ed. 1795), trans. Bendyshe (1865). Quoted e.g. in Arthur Keith, '"Blumenbach's Centenary", Man (journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland), v. 40, pp. 82–85 (1940). ^ The Georgians, David Marshal Lang, p 19 ^ The Georgians, David Marshal Lang, p 66 ^ Georgia A Sovereign Country of the Caucasus, Roger Rosen, p 18 ^ The Making of the Georgian Nation, Ronald Grigor Suny, p.4 ^ a b c Cyril Toumanoff, Studies in Christian Caucasian History, p 80 ^ Cyril Toumanoff, Studies in Christian Caucasian History, p. 58 ^ The Complete Works, Jewish Antiquities, Josephus, Book 1, p 57 ^ The Georgians, David Marshal Lang, p. 58 ^ The Georgians, David Marshal Lang, p 59 ^ Charles Burney and David Marshal Lang, The Peoples of the Hills: Ancient Ararat and Caucasus, p. 38 ^ Cyril Toumanoff, Studies in Christian Caucasian History, p. 57 ^ CToumanoff. Cyril Toumanoff, Studies in Christian Caucasian History, p 69,84 ^ Battaglia V, Fornarino S, Al-Zahery N, et al. (June 2009). "Y-chromosomal evidence of the cultural diffusion of agriculture in southeast Europe". European Journal of Human Genetics. 17 (6): 820–30. doi:10.1038/ejhg.2008.249. PMC 2947100. PMID 19107149. ^ Toumanoff, Cyril, "Iberia between Chosroid and Bagratid Rule", in Studies in Christian Caucasian History, Georgetown, 1963, pp. 374–377. Accessible online at "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 8 February 2012. Retrieved 2012-06-04.CS1 maint: Archived copy as title (link) ^ Rapp, Stephen H., Jr (2007). "7 – Georgian Christianity". The Blackwell Companion to Eastern Christianity. John Wiley & Sons. p. 138. ISBN 978-1-4443-3361-9. Retrieved 11 May 2012. ^ "GEORGIA iii. Iranian elements in Georgian art and archeology". Retrieved 1 January 2015. ^ "The Making of the Georgian Nation". Retrieved 2 January 2015. ^ 2002 census results – p. 132 ^ Thomas Liles, "Islam and religious transformation in Adjara", ECMI Working Paper, February 2012, [3], accessed 4 June 2012 ^ Caucasus Analytical Digest No.20, Heinrich Böll Stiftung, 11 October 2010 ^ Mack, Glenn R.; Surina, Asele (2005). Food Culture in Russia And Central Asia. Greenwood Publishing Group. ISBN 0-313-32773-4. ^ (in Russian) Первая всеобщая перепись населения Российской Империи 1897 г. ^ (in Russian) ССР ГРУЗИЯ (1926 г.) ^ "Dr Mathijs Pelkmans". Retrieved 21 August 2015. ^ Pelkmans, Mathijs. Defending the border: identity, religion, and modernity in the Republic of Georgia. Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 2006, pg. 80 ^ a b Rezvani, Babak (Winter 2009). "The Fereydani Georgian Representation". Anthropology of the Middle East. 4 (2): 52–74. doi:10.3167/ame.2009.040205. ^ a b "The Other Languages of Europe". Guus Extra & Durk Gorter. Google Books. Retrieved 26 May 2014. About 91,000 Muslim Georgians living in Turkey. ^ "Türkiye'deki Yaşayan Etnik Gruplar Araştırıldı". Milliyet (in Turkish). 6 June 2008. Retrieved 2008-06-07. ^ Ramet, Sabrina P. (1989). Religion and Nationalism in Soviet and East European Politics. Durham: Duke University Press. p. 187. ISBN 9780822308911. ^ Friedrich, Paul (1994). Encyclopedia of World Cultures: Russia and Eurasia, China (1. publ. ed.). Boston, Massachusetts: G.K. Hall. p. 150. ISBN 9780816118106. A part of the Ingilo population still retains the (Orthodox) Christian faith, but another, larger segment adheres to the Sunni sect of Islam. v t e Ethnic groups in Georgia Kartvelian peoples Georgians Lazs Mingrelians Svans Ethnic minorities Abkhazians Armenians Assyrians Azerbaijanis Qarapapaqs Bats Germans Greeks Pontic Greeks Kists Kurds Yazidis Ossetians Russians See Also: Ethnic minorities in Georgia v t e Kartvelians (Georgians) Subethnic groups Svans Zans Megrelians Lazs Historical Colchians Byzeres Drilae Machelones Macrones Marres Mossynoeci Phasians Sanni Tibareni Zydretae Iberians Gugars Saspers Taochoi Kaskians Misimians Northern v t e Peoples of the Caucasus Caucasian Caspian Avar–Andic Andi Akhvakh Bagvalals–Tindis Botlix–Godoberi Chamalals Karata Avars Didoic Bezhta Hinukh Hunzibs Khwarshi Tsez Lezgic Aguls Archin Budukh Jek Kryts Lezgins Rutuls Tabasarans Tsakhurs Udin Nakh Bats Chechens including Kists Ingush Other Dargins Khinalug Laks Kartvelian Georgians including Lazs Pontic Abkhaz–Abaza Circassians Indo-European Armenian Armenians Hellenic Caucasus Greeks including Urums Pontic Greeks Iranic Eastern Ossetians Digor Western Talysh Tats Kurds Slavic Cossacks Kuban Cossacks Terek Cossacks Russians Ukrainians Semitic Georgian Jews Mountain Jews Mongolic Kalmyks Turkic Kipchak–Cuman Karachay–Balkars Kumyks Kipchak–Nogai Nogai Oghuz Azerbaijanis Meskhetian Turks Turkmens Ethnic minorities in Armenia Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan Ethnic minorities in Georgia Ethnic minorities in Russia v t e Eastern Christianity Cultural sphere of Christian traditions that developed since Early Christianity in the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Eastern Africa, Asia Minor, Southern India, and parts of the Far East. Communions Eastern Orthodox Church Oriental Orthodoxy Eastern Catholic Churches Catholic Church Assyrian Church of the East Ancient Church of the East History Eastern Orthodox Church Byzantine Empire Ecumenical council Church of the East Council of Chalcedon Iconoclastic controversy Saint Thomas Christians/Malankara Church Christianization of Bulgaria Christianization of Kievan Rus' East–West Schism Scriptures Books Canon Old Testament New Testament Deuterocanon Septuagint Peshitta Theology Hesychasm Icon Apophaticism Filioque clause Miaphysitism Dyophysitism Nestorianism Theosis Theoria Phronema Philokalia Praxis Theotokos Hypostasis Ousia Essence–energies distinction Metousiosis Worship Sign of the cross Divine Liturgy Iconography Asceticism Omophorion Ethnic groups with significant adherence Majorities Indo-European Armenians Aromanians Belarusians Bulgarians Greeks including Greek Cypriots Macedonians Megleno-Romanians Moldovans Montenegrins Ossetians Romanians Russians Serbs Ukrainians Afro-Asiatic Agaw Amhara Assyrians Copts Chaldean Catholics Maronites Tigrayans Turkic Chuvash Dolgans Gagauz Khakas Kryashens Yakuts Kartvelian Georgians including Svans and Mingrelians Finno-Ugric Izhorians Karelians Khanty Komi Mansi Mari Mordvins Setos Udmurts Vepsians Votes Samoyedic Enets Nenets Nganasans Selkups Chukotko-Kamchatkan Alyutors Itelmens Kereks Koryaks Dené–Yeniseian Kets Tlingits Eskimo–Aleut Aleuts Yupiks Northwest Caucasian Abkhazians Nakh Batsbi Minorities Adyghe Kabardians Kists Albanians Altai Arabs Buryats Chukchi Estonians Setos Kihnu Finns Inuit Malayali Oromos Romani Rusyns Saami Eastern Christianity portal v t e Georgia articles History Early Prehistoric Georgia Shulaveri-Shomu culture Kura–Araxes culture Trialeti culture Colchian culture Diauehi Colchis Iberia Lazica Roman Georgia Sasanian Iberia Christianization of Iberia Middle Principality of Iberia Bagrationi dynasty Arab rule in Georgia Emirate of Tbilisi Kingdom of Abkhazia Principality of Tao-Klarjeti Kingdom of Hereti First Kingdom of Kakheti Kingdom of Georgia Byzantine–Georgian wars Georgian–Seljuk wars Battle of Didgori Georgian Golden Age Mongol invasions of Georgia Timur's invasions of Georgia Principality of Samtskhe Turkmen invasions of Georgia Kingdom of Imereti Principality of Abkhazia Principality of Svaneti Principality of Guria Principality of Mingrelia Kingdom of Kartli Kingdom of Kakheti Safavid Georgia Shah Abbas I's invasions of Georgia Kingdom of Kartli-Kakheti 1795 Persian Invasion Absorption by the Russian Empire Modern Democratic Republic of Georgia Georgian–Armenian War Red Army invasion of Georgia Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic April 9 tragedy Independent Georgia Georgian Civil War War in Abkhazia Rose Revolution Russo-Georgian War By topic Name of Georgia Monarchs States Military history Wars Battles Timeline of Georgian history more Geography Birds Black Sea Climate Earthquakes Environmental issues Glaciers Greater Caucasus Lakes Lesser Caucasus Mammals National parks Protected areas Rivers Volcanoes more Subdivisions Administrative divisions Cities and towns Tbilisi Regions more Politics Cabinet Constitution Elections Human rights LGBT Law enforcement Military Air Force Coast Guard Land Forces National Assembly Political parties President Prime Minister Foreign relations Ministry of Foreign Affairs Embassies in Georgia / of Georgia European Union NATO Georgian–Abkhaz conflict Georgian–Ossetian conflict Economy Agriculture Central bank Companies Energy International rankings Lari (currency) Mining Stock Exchange Telecommunications Tourism visa policy Transport Airports Autoroutes Railway Tbilisi Metro Stations more Culture Alphabet Architecture Art Chokha Cinema Cuisine Wine Dance Georgian language Laz Mingrelian Svan Media Music Mythology Names Public holidays Sports World Heritage Sites more Demographics Education Ethnic minorities Georgians List Diaspora Health care Women more Religion Georgian Orthodox Church Islam Catholicism Judaism Bahá'í Freedom of religion Secularism and irreligion more Symbols Anthem Bolnisi cross Borjgali Coat of arms Flag Motto Saint George cross Saint Nino cross Outline Index Book Category Portal Authority control BNF: cb11971243c (data) GND: 4092826-3 LCCN: sh85054256 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Georgians&oldid=871700968" Categories: Ancient peoples of Georgia (country) Caucasus Ethnic groups in Azerbaijan Ethnic groups in Georgia (country) Ethnic groups in Iran Ethnic groups in Russia Ethnic groups in Turkey People from Georgia (country) Peoples of the Caucasus Society of Georgia (country) Hidden categories: CS1 maint: Archived copy as title Articles with Russian-language external links CS1 Turkish-language sources (tr) Use dmy dates from August 2017 Pages using deprecated image syntax Articles using infobox ethnic group with image parameters Articles containing Georgian-language text Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Адыгэбзэ Afrikaans Ænglisc العربية Aragonés Авар Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎ Български Bosanski Буряад Чӑвашла Čeština Deutsch Eesti Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Gaeilge Galego ГӀалгӀай 한국어 Հայերեն Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Ирон Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша Лакку Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Македонски მარგალური Монгол Nederlands 日本語 Нохчийн Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча پښتو Polski Português Română Русский Scots Shqip Simple English Slovenčina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska Татарча/tatarça Türkçe Тыва дыл Українська اردو Tiếng Việt 吴语 粵語 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 2 December 2018, at 22:03 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
