Germany Has Deported Sister Zhao Back to China | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Germany Has Deported Sister Zhao Back to China Germany Has Deported Sister Zhao Back to China 09/06/2018 Bitter Winter Wikiolo – CC BY-SA 4.0 Ignoring appeals by the Red Cross and several NGOs, Germany has forcibly deported Sister Zhao, a member of The Church of Almighty God, back to China on August 31. She is unaccounted for since. Bitter Winter has reported repeatedly on the case of Sister Zhao Xueliang, a member of The Church of Almighty God, a Chinese Christian new religious movement heavily persecuted in China, who was detained in Ingelheim, Germany, after her asylum request had been rejected. The German Red Cross and several humanitarian organizations and NGOs had written to Chancellor Angela Merkel, explaining that identified members of The Church of Almighty God, a banned organization, are automatically arrested in China and there are numerous documented cases of extra-judicial killing and torture. These appeals have been ignored and on August 31 Sister Zhao has been forcibly deported to Beijing. She is unaccounted since. As it happened in other cases, she has “disappeared,” and attempts by her relatives, friends, and Church to locate her have been so far unsuccessful. The portal of the German Evangelical Church (EKD), in an article reiterating that the theology of The Church of Almighty God is certainly very much far away from the EKD, yet at the same time very critical of the German authorities, notes that “the circumstances of deportation met with particular criticism. The Chinese woman did not have a chance to get in touch with those who may have helped her upon her arrival in China, because her cell phone had been removed and not returned. She was also not allowed to take her personal belongings. ‘Her clothes are still in her room in the accommodation,’ said a volunteer.” Sister Zhao Xueliang was born on March 10, 1991 and was a resident of Yuanqu County, Yuncheng City, Shanxi Province, China. She fled to Germany on July 29, 2016 and presented a request of asylum on August 17. She had her hearing on January 9, 2017, and on February 22 was informed that her request for asylum had been denied. Subsequent appeals failed. As the German Evangelical Church notes, the volunteers who had befriended Sister Zhao in Germany are not optimistic about her fate. They “assume that they [members of banned religious groups who are forced to return to China] are first interrogated by the authorities, and then sent to a re-education camp. The circle of her friends considers it very unlikely that she can be contacted. Even if she has not been arrested, her life prospects would be very bad. She would depend on the help of other members of the Church of the Almighty God because she herself would never be able to take a job or find a home. In the police state of China, those who would dare to help her would also be immediately repressed.” In April 2018, Germany deported back to China an Uyghur Muslim asylum seeker. Once he landed in China, he “disappeared,” and his lawyer and family have all the reasons to fear the worst. Germany has now apologized, calling the deportation “a mistake.” Apologies, however, did not save the Uyghur, and future apologies would be of little help to Sister Zhao. However, this extremely sad case should serve as a warning to authorities of democratic countries who plan to deport members of persecuted religious groups back to China, based on possible irregularities of their asylum requests and a general political climate hostile to refugees. Tagged With: Church of Almighty God, Muslim Uyghurs Related articles Will Germany Deliver Another Victim to Her Persecutors on August 31? Nine NGOs write to Angela Merkel: “Do Not Deport Sister Zhao Back to China” False Demonstrations Against The Church of Almighty God Refugees Start in South Korea New Law “Legalizes” Re-Education Camps in Xinjiang Read more “Studies” in Prison: Staff Member Uncovers Details of a Xinjiang Camp... Bitter Winter continues exposing the lies by Chinese authorities about the “tr... Muslims Pushed to the Fringes of Housing Market Police notification about Uyghur travelers. As a result of discriminatory poli... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Senior CAG Leader Sentenced to 13 Years Excerpt from the verdict by the Intermediate People’s Court of Zaozhuang. Bao ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
