Government Orders to Remove the Cross from a Christian Church in Yongjia, Zhejiang Province | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Government Orders to Remove the Cross from a Christian Church in Yongjia, Zhejiang Province Government Orders to Remove the Cross from a Christian Church in Yongjia, Zhejiang Province 05/12/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 11, 2018 A Christian church, established about 15 years ago, sits on a mountainside in Meikeng Village, Qiaoxia Town, Yongjia County, Zhejiang Province. In the past, four big shiny golden Chinese characters meaning “Christian Church” were written above the church gate, and a cross stood on the top of the building. Now, the cross is gone, and the two characters meaning “Christ” were painted black. Bitter Winter has learned what happened to the church in June 2016. Ms. Lin Aimei (pseudonym, more than 60 years old), a Christian from the Charismatic Movement, was having a meeting with several other Christians in the church when three government officials showed up unexpectedly and told them: “The cross represents a foreign faith, foreigners introduced it to China. Chinese people cannot believe in it. So, we have to remove the cross.” They offered the Christians to remove the cross themselves. If they refused to do so, the government would not only remove it, but also dispatch people to destroy three stories of this seven-storied building. They further intimidated the believers, saying: “You cannot believe in Christianity, and you cannot keep the word ‘Christ’ on the wall. If you want to continue with this religion, go to a Three-Self church.” According to Lin Aimei, to protect the building, in June 2016, the person in charge of the church had to arrange the removal of the cross. Somebody painted black the two characters meaning “Christ.” In 2017, a national flag was raised at the church gate. Cross Removed, “Christ” on the Wall Painted Black Tagged With: Christian Churches Related articles When CCP Deployed Nearly 600 to Demolish a Church Three-Self Church Suffers Repeated Persecution Churches in Yongcheng Looted Official Document Reveals the Campaign to Demolish Crosses Read more Manipulated Into Agreeing to Demolish Their Church The notice of demolition for Yangzhai Church. After a sequence of well-planned... Shutdowns of House Churches Continue (Video) Churches that are not directly controlled by the Chinese Communist P... Official Document Reveals the Campaign to Demolish Crosses Source: Direct Reports from China Date: June 30, 2018 Fifty-one crosses have... A Christian Detained for a Year, Still Persecuted After Her Release Source: Direct Reports from China Date: June 25, 2018 A 36-year-old Christia... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧
