Graduation Information  | Toulouse Graduate School Skip to main content Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search Call us Contact Us UNT Map Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter People Contact Us FAQ Quicklinks Back MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect University Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT University of North Texas Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety More Info Learn more about UNT’s 125 exceptional advanced degree programs, many nationally and internationally ranked. Request More Info Tour Our Campus Take a tour of UNT’s beautiful campus and see why we’re the perfect place to take your education and career further. Take a tour International Find all the information you need for applying to Toulouse Graduate School from outside the United States. International Info Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Support Support services include Thesis/Dissertation Boot Camp, Professional Development, 3MT competition, and more. Support Services Graduation You've made it! Find all the resources for graduating and writing your thesis or dissertation. Graduation Teaching UNT provides resources to make your graduate assistantship as successful as possible with programs such as CLEAR. More Resources Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Forms Easily find faculty and staff specific forms for various academic needs. If not logged in you will be asked to log in to view the forms. View Forms Defense Notices If your student is defending their dissertation or thesis fill out this form and the defense will automatically be added to the events calendar. Defense Notification Resources Additional resources for UNT faculty and staff, such as staff workshops, job openings, and links to faculty success. More Resources Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter UNT Alumni The Alumni Association engages the institution’s 407,000 alumni in the life of the university and to support alumni throughout every stage of life. Alumni Association Spotlights View the profiles of success and stories from UNT alumni who have graduated through the Toulouse Graduate School. Alumni Success Support Our alumni give back through volunteer hours, expertise and giving, among others. Your support helps ensure a top education for our students. Give Now People Contact Us FAQ MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Search form Search Search Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ Toulouse Graduate School You are here Home Graduation Information Graduation Information Congratulations on nearing completion of your Master’s or Doctoral degree at UNT! To ensure a seamless graduation experience, here you will find information on how to apply for graduation, important graduation deadlines, commencement and regalia information, and other frequently asked questions. If you have a question that is not addressed in the information provided below, please email your name and UNT student ID number to graduation@unt.edu Apply to Graduate Graduation applications are now done through the MyUNT student portal. Please see the graduation application instructions link below. All students must apply for graduation by the posted semester deadline listed below. If you are pursuing more than one degree, you will need to submit a separate graduation application for each degree. Click Here to View Graduation Application Instructions (PDF) In addition to completion of the Graduation Application, we ask that you complete the following survey(s): UNT Graduating Student Survey- All graduating Master’s and Doctoral students should complete this survey. Log in to your MyUNT student portal and navigate to your Student Center Page. Once you have been approved for graduation, you will see a Graduating Student section which will take you to the Graduating Student Survey. Your feedback is very important to us, so please take the time to complete the survey. Survey of Earned Doctorates All Doctoral students are asked to complete the National Science Foundation's Survey of Earned Doctorates (SED) before graduation. This is an annual census conducted by six federal agencies of all individuals receiving a research doctorate from accredited U.S. institutions. Survey data is used to track the number of graduates in various fields; the educational paths of scientists, engineers, and humanists; movement of graduates into the labor market; and similar information. Additional information is available on the Survey of Earned Doctorates page. Graduation Requirements All students must have an approved, official degree plan on file with the Toulouse Graduate School. Your degree plan should be filed with your major department immediately after completion of the first term/semester of graduate study. If you are unsure if you have an approved, official degree plan on file, or need to file a degree plan, please contact your major department/major professor for assistance. Students who do not have an approved, official degree plan on file will not be eligible for graduation. A student completing a thesis or dissertation must maintain continuous enrollment in a minimum of 3 semester hours of thesis or dissertation during each fall and spring term/semester, including the term/semester the thesis or dissertation is accepted by the Vice Provost for Graduate Education and Dean of the Toulouse Graduate School. Registration in 3 semester hours of thesis or dissertation in at least one summer session/term is required to graduate in August. Enrollment at a Second Institution: If you are currently enrolled at another institution, you may not be eligible to graduate from UNT in the current semester. You must be admitted to the program in order to graduate. If you do not have an option to select the program you are completing (for example, if you are completing an MS in Psychology but only have the option to select the PhD program you are in), please contact Toulouse Graduate School Admissions (graduateschool@unt.edu) to complete the necessary application. You may then submit your application for graduation after the new program appears in your portal. Graduation Deadlines Spring 2019 Summer 2019 Fall 2018 Graduation Application Opens October 1, 2018 October 1, 2018 March 19, 2018 Graduation Application Closes (This is the last day applications will be accepted) March 8, 2019 June 14, 2019 October 12, 2018 Oral Defense Results for Thesis/Dissertations (should be submitted within 48 hours of defense, but no later than the posted deadline) March 29, 2019 July 12, 2019 November 2, 2018 Thesis/Dissertation Submission through Vireo (must be the final approved, defended version with all committee edits included. No changes can be made after submission) March 29, 2019 July 12, 2019 November 2, 2018 Final Submission Deadline (final exam/project results, degree plan changes, removal of "Incompletes" in required courses, proof of foreign language if required) March 29, 2019 July 12, 2019 November 2, 2018 Revised Thesis/Dissertation based on Reader comments uploaded into Vireo May 2, 2019 August 8, 2019 December 6, 2018 Graduation Fees Master’s Degree: No fees Master’s Degree & Thesis: $20 archiving fee Doctoral Degree & Dissertation: $20 archiving fee If you are writing a paper, appropriate fees will be added to your account when your final, defended paper is submitted to the Graduate School. An email from graduation@unt.edu will alert you that payment is due. Students who wish to take advantage of additional ProQuest services (such as ProQuest's "Open Access" publishing option) will need to pay any additional fees directly to ProQuest. Commencement, Regalia, Announcements & Diplomas Important Distinction between Graduating and Participating in Commencement Events Commencement events are the congratulatory ceremonies hosted by university officials in which students are publically and formally recognized. Graduation is the process of being awarded a degree after completion of credit hours and other degree requirements. Actual diplomas are not awarded at commencement ceremonies and participation in the ceremonies is not a guarantee of degree completion. Diplomas are mailed approximately 8 to 10 weeks after graduation to the mailing address on file with UNT. You can review and update your mailing address online at my.unt.edu. To officially graduate from UNT, a student must apply for graduation by the posted deadline. After receipt of final grades, the student's degree audit or degree plan must show the student satisfied all university, college and departmental requirements for the specific degree. A degree becomes official when it is posted to a student's transcript -- typically two to three weeks after the completion of their final term - not by their participation in commencement exercises. During semesters in which there is a University sanctioned event, information regarding the relevant ceremony will be sent by the Registrar’s Office approximately 3 weeks prior to graduation via U.S. mail to the mailing address you have on file with UNT. You can review and update your mailing address online at my.unt.edu. Doctoral and Master’s Commencement Ceremony dates and other important information can be found at http://commencement.unt.edu/ Please note that August graduates are invited to attend the December Commencement Ceremony, unless substantial and exceptional circumstances warranting ceremony participation prior to degree completion have been approved. Graduates will wear official approved regalia for all formal commencement events. All arrangements for regalia approved by the university should be made with the official provider, Barnes and Noble at UNT, located inside the University Union, 1155 Union Cir, Denton, TX, 76203 (940-565-2592). Still Have Questions? Please be sure to check our FAQ page for more information. If you've checked your student portal for information about the status of your application and still have questions, please contact us by emailing graduation@unt.edu. Please be sure to include your full name and student ID# in all correspondence. We respond to all emails in a timely manner. Top New and Current Students Graduate Student Orientation Assistantship Benefits and Teaching Resources Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Student Support Services and Workshops Graduation Information Graduation Deadlines Forms Travel Grants Milestones for Graduate Students Academic Resources Federation of North Texas Area Universities Update your application Career Services FAQ Main Menu Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ University Links MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Email & Phone GraduateSchool@unt.edu 940-565-2383 Toulouse Graduate School 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 1155 Union Circle #305459 (USPS) 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 354 (UPS/FedEx) Denton, Texas 76203-5459 Visitor Information Call us Email Us UNT Map Apply now Schedule a tour Get more info Disclaimer | AA/EOE/ADA | Privacy | Electronic Accessibility | Required Links | UNT Home ©2018 University of North Texas Required Links
