Guides: How to reference a Report in IEEE style - Cite This For Me Back to IEEE guides Guide: How to cite a Report in IEEE style Cite This For Me Terms of service Your Bibliography Extras Topic Ideas Citation Guides create an account Not logged in. Log in or create an account Guide: How to cite a Report in IEEE style Cite A Report in IEEE style Cite in IEEE Ads keep us free. Upgrade to remove. Use the following template to cite a report using the IEEE citation style. For help with other source types, like books, PDFs, or websites, check out our other guides. To have your reference list or bibliography automatically made for you, try our free citation generator. Key:Pink text = information that you will need to find from the source. Black text = text required by the IEEE style. Reference list Place this part in your bibliography or reference list at the end of your assignment. Template: [1]Author Initial.  Author Surname, 'Title', Publisher, City, Year Published. Example: [1]'Success of Publick Health Campaigns', Mintel, UK, 2013. In-text citation Place this part right after the quote or reference to the source in your assignment. Template [1] Example ‘whilst young adults aged 16-24 are aware of the importance to their health of not eating junk foods, this attitude doesn’t always translate into practice, as fast food maybe cheaper and more readily available compared with fresh produce and healthy snacks.’ [1] Popular IEEE Citation Guides How to cite a Book in IEEE style How to cite a Website in IEEE style How to cite a Journal in IEEE style How to cite a DVD, video, or film in IEEE style How to cite a Online image or video in IEEE style Other IEEE Citation Guides How to cite a Archive material in IEEE style How to cite a Artwork in IEEE style How to cite a Blog in IEEE style How to cite a Broadcast in IEEE style How to cite a Chapter of an edited book in IEEE style How to cite a Conference proceedings in IEEE style How to cite a Court case in IEEE style How to cite a Dictionary entry in IEEE style How to cite a Dissertation in IEEE style How to cite a E-book or PDF in IEEE style How to cite a Edited book in IEEE style How to cite a Email in IEEE style How to cite a Encyclopedia article in IEEE style How to cite a Government publication in IEEE style How to cite a Interview in IEEE style How to cite a Legislation in IEEE style How to cite a Magazine in IEEE style How to cite a Music or recording in IEEE style How to cite a Newspaper in IEEE style How to cite a Patent in IEEE style How to cite a Podcast in IEEE style How to cite a Presentation or lecture in IEEE style How to cite a Press release in IEEE style How to cite a Religious text in IEEE style How to cite a Report in IEEE style How to cite a Software in IEEE style Join Us! Save Time and Improve Your Marks with Cite This For Me 10,587 students joined last month!! ✔ Save your bibliographies for longer ✔ Super fast and accurate citation program ✔ Save time when referencing ✔ Make your student life easy and fun ✔ Use our extensive Premium features (Plagiarism checks, Word Add On...) ✔ Create and edit multiple bibliographies Join US Privacy Policy International Privacy Policy Cookie Notice
