Heavy equipment - Wikipedia Heavy equipment From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "Heavy machinery" redirects here. For the album by Anders Johansson, Jens Johansson and Allan Holdsworth, see Heavy Machinery (album). "Earthmover" redirects here. For the EP by Once Nothing, see Earthmover (EP). Further information: Equipment The lead section of this article may need to be rewritten. Please discuss this issue on the article's talk page. Use the lead layout guide to ensure the section follows Wikipedia's norms and to be inclusive of all essential details. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Heavy equipment vehicles of various types parking near a highway construction site Fixed cranes are also a kind of construction machinery or heavy equipment. Caterpillar D9L bulldozer, excavators and other heavy equipment vehicles parked near a quarry in Israel Bulldozer, excavators and other heavy equipment vehicles parked near a quarry Bucket wheel excavators in Garzweiler surface mine, Germany Heavy equipment refers to heavy-duty vehicles, specially designed for executing construction tasks, most frequently ones involving earthwork operations. They are also known as heavy machines, heavy trucks, construction equipment, engineering equipment, heavy vehicles, or heavy hydraulics. They usually comprise five equipment systems: implement, traction, structure, power train, control and information.[1] Heavy equipment functions through the mechanical advantage of a simple machine, the ratio between input force applied and force exerted is multiplied. Some equipment uses hydraulic drives as a primary source of motion. Contents 1 History 1.1 From horses, through steam, to diesel 2 Types 2.1 Images 3 Implements and Hydromechanical Work Tools 4 Traction: Off-the-road tires and Tracks 5 Powertrain 6 Control and Information 7 Heavy equipment operator 8 Equipment cost 8.1 Ownership Cost 8.2 Operating cost 9 Models 10 Notable Manufacturers 11 See also 12 References History[edit] Further information: History of construction and History of steam road vehicles JCB 3CX backhoe loader A wheeled bulldozer in an open pit coal mine A portable engine; a precursor to modern engineering vehicles An early gasoline-powered tractor The use of heavy equipment has a long history; the ancient Roman engineer Vitruvius (1st century BCE) gave descriptions of heavy equipment and cranes in ancient Rome in his treatise De architectura. The pile driver was invented around 1500. The first tunnelling shield was patented by Marc Isambard Brunel in 1818. From horses, through steam, to diesel[edit] Heavy equipment circa 1922 horse-drawn scraper digging water-supply ditch Until the 19th century and into the early 20th century heavy machines were drawn under human or animal power. With the advent of portable steam-powered engines the drawn machine precursors were reconfigured with the new engines, such as the combine harvester. The design of a core tractor evolved around the new steam power source into a new machine core traction engine, that can be configured as the steam tractor and the steamroller. During the 20th century, internal-combustion engines became the major power source of heavy equipment. Kerosene and ethanol engines were used, but today diesel engines are dominant. Mechanical transmission was in many cases replaced by hydraulic machinery. The early 20th century also saw new electric-powered machines such as the forklift. Caterpillar Inc. is a present-day brand from these days, starting out as the Holt Manufacturing Company. The first mass-produced heavy machine was the Fordson tractor in 1917. The first commercial continuous track vehicle was the 1901 Lombard Steam Log Hauler. The use of tracks became popular for tanks during World War I, and later for civilian machinery like the bulldozer. The largest engineering vehicles and mobile land machines are bucket-wheel excavators, built since the 1920s. "Until almost the twentieth century, one simple tool constituted the primary earthmoving machine: the hand shovel - moved with animal and human powered, sleds, barges, and wagons. This tool was the principal method by which material was either sidecast or elevated to load a conveyance, usually a wheelbarrow, or a cart or wagon drawn by a draft animal. In antiquity, an equivalent of the hand shovel or hoe and head basket—and masses of men—were used to move earth to build civil works. Builders have long used the inclined plane, levers, and pulleys to place solid building materials, but these labor-saving devices did not lend themselves to earthmoving, which required digging, raising, moving, and placing loose materials. The two elements required for mechanized earthmoving, then as now, were an independent power source and off-road mobility, neither of which could be provided by the technology of that time."[2] Container cranes were used from the 1950s and onwards, and made containerization possible. Nowadays such is the importance of this machinery, some transport companies have developed specific equipment to transport heavy construction equipment to and from sites. Types[edit] These subdivisions, in this order, are the standard heavy equipment categorization. Track-type Agricultural tractors Bulldozer Snowcat Track skidder Track-type tractors (Bulldozer) Tractor Military engineering vehicles Grader Grader SkidSteer Skid steer loader Excavator Amphibious excavator Compact excavator Dragline excavator Dredging Bucket-wheel excavator Excavator (digger) Front shovel Long reach excavator Power shovel Reclaimer Steam shovel Suction excavator Walking Excavator Trencher (machine) Yarder Backhoe Backhoe loader, Backhoe Timber Feller buncher Harvester Skidder Track harvester Wheel forwarder Wheel skidder Pipelayer Pipelayer (sideboom) Scraper Fresno scraper Scraper Wheel tractor-scraper Mining Construction & mining tractor Construction & mining trucks Articulated Articulated hauler Articulated truck Compactor Wheel dozers – soil compactors Soil stabilizer Loader Loader Skip loader (skippy) Wheel loader (front loader, integrated tool carrier) Track Loader Track loader Material Handler Aerial work platform / Lift table Cherry picker Crane Forklift Knuckleboom loader (trailer mount) & Knuckleboom loader (trailer mount) Straddle carrier Reach stacker Telescopic handlers Paving Asphalt paver Asphalt plant Cold planer Cure rig Paver Pavement milling Pneumatic tire compactor Roller (road roller or roller compactor) Slipform paver Vibratory compactor, Compactor Underground Roadheader Tunnel boring machine Underground mining equipment Hydromatic Tool Ballast tamper Attachments Drilling machine Pile driver Rotary tiller (rototiller, rotovator) Highway Dump truck Highway 10 yard rear dump Highway bottom dump (stiff), pup (belly train), triple Highway end dump and side dump Highway transfer, Transfer train Highway transit-mixer Lowboy (trailer) Street sweeper Images[edit] The Caterpillar D10N bulldozer evolved from tracked-type tractors and is characterized by a steel blade attached to the front that is used to push other equipment and construction materials, such as, earth. Normally the bucket is pulled toward the excavator to excavate material. The uncommon "thumb" attachment on this Caterpillar enables 'grabbing' objects, for example, during demolition. The wheel trencher MARAIS SMC 200 R. Iron bar reinforced foundation piles are driven with a drilling machine, concrete pump, mixer-truck, and a specialized auger that allows pumping concrete through its axis while withdrawn. Wheel loader Grader (plowing snow here) Landfill compactor (tamping tip) A wheeled front loader tractor equipped with a large bucket elevated by hydraulic rams. Reconditioned Caterpillar 825G Soil Compactor Folded conveyor on a tracked grinder Military engineering vehicles The militarized Caterpillar D9 armored bulldozer allows for earthmoving projects in a combat environment. In the picture: IDF Caterpillar D9R. The militarized Huta Stalowa Wola backhoe loader in Poland which is subsidiary of LiuGong China Military scraper PiPz Dachs armoured engineering vehicle of the German Army (2008) Implements and Hydromechanical Work Tools[edit] auger backhoe bale spear broom bulldozer blade clam shell bucket cold plane demolition shears equipment bucket excavator bucket forks grapple hydraulic hammer, hoe ram hydraulics hydraulic tilting bucket (4-in-1) landscape tiller material handling arm mechanical pulverizer, crusher multi processor pavement removal bucket pile driver power take-off (PTO) quick coupler rake ripper rotating grab sheep's foot compactor skeleton bucket snow blower stump grinder stump shear thumb tiltrotator trencher vibratory plate compactor wheel saw Traction: Off-the-road tires and Tracks[edit] Main articles: Off-the-road tire and Caterpillar track Continuous track (circa 1909) Caterpillar track (circa 2009) Heavy equipment requires specialized tires for various construction applications. While many types of equipment have continuous tracks applicable to more severe service requirements, tires are used where greater speed or mobility is required. An understanding of what equipment will be used for during the life of the tires is required for proper selection. Tire selection can have a significant impact on production and unit cost. There are three types of off-the-road tires, transport for earthmoving machines, work for slow moving earthmoving machines, and load and carry for transporting as well as digging. Off-highway tires have six categories of service C compactor, E earthmover, G grader, L loader, LS log-skidder and ML mining and logging. Within these service categories are various tread types designed for use on hard-packed surface, soft surface and rock. Tires are a large expense on any construction project, careful consideration should be given to prevent excessive wear or damage. Powertrain[edit] internal combustion engine transmission steering (tracked equipment) brakes Control and Information[edit] "The control and information systems. These systems enable the operator to direct and control all the other systems and provide information to guide operations or to monitor the performance and health of the equipment."[1] Heavy equipment operator[edit] Main article: Heavy equipment operator A heavy equipment operator drives and operates heavy equipment used in engineering and construction projects.[3][4] Typically only skilled workers may operate heavy equipment, and there is specialized training for learning to use heavy equipment. Much publication about heavy equipment operators focuses on improving safety for such workers. The field of occupational medicine researches and makes recommendations about safety for these and other workers in safety-sensitive positions. Equipment cost[edit] Due to the small profit margins on construction projects it is important to maintain accurate records concerning equipment utilization, repairs and maintenance. The two main categories of equipment costs are ownership cost and operating cost.[5] Ownership Cost[edit] To classify as an ownership cost an expense must have been incurred regardless of if the equipment is used or not. These costs are as follows: purchase expense salvage value tax savings from depreciation major repairs and overhauls property taxes insurance storage Depreciation can be calculated several ways, the simplest is the straight-line method. The annual depreciation is constant, reducing the equipment value annually. The following are simple equations paraphrased from the Peurifoy & Schexnayder text: m = some year in the future N = equipment useful life (years) and Dn = Annual depreciation amount Dn = purchase price / N Book value (BV) in year m BVm = purchase price - (m x Dn) example: N = 5 purchase price = $350,000 m = 3 years from now BV3 = $350,000 - ( 3 x $350,000/5) = $140,000 Operating cost[edit] For an expense to be classified as an operating cost, it must be incurred through use of the equipment. These costs are as follows:[6] F.O.G. fuel lubricants, lube oils, filters (oil, air, fuel, hydraulic), and grease repairs repair parts repair labor tires 3rd party service contract replacement of high-wear items The biggest distinction from a cost standpoint is if a repair is classified as a major repair or a minor repair. A major repair can change the depreciable equipment value due to an extension in service life, while a minor repair is normal maintenance. How a firm chooses to cost major and minor repairs vary from firm to firm depending on the costing strategies being used. Some firms will charge only major repairs to the equipment while minor repairs are costed to a project. Another common costing strategy is to cost all repairs to the equipment and only frequently replaced wear items are excluded from the equipment cost. Many firms keep their costing structure closely guarded[citation needed] as it can impact the bidding strategies of their competition. In a company with multiple semi-independent divisions, the equipment department often wants to classify all repairs as "minor" and charge the work to a job - therefore improving their 'profit' from the equipment. Models[edit] Main article: Model construction vehicle Die-cast metal promotional scale models of heavy equipment are often produced for each vehicle to give to prospective customers. These are typically in 1:50 scale. The popular manufacturers of these models are Conrad and NZG in Germany, even for US vehicles. Notable Manufacturers[edit] The largest 10 construction equipment manufacturers in 2015 based on revenue data of top 50 manufacturers published by KHL Group [7] No. Company Country CE Sales (million USD) Share of total 1 Caterpillar United States 28,283 17.8% 2 Komatsu Japan 16,877 10.6% 3 Hitachi Construction Machinery Japan 7,790 4.9% 4 Volvo Construction Equipment Sweden 7,785 4.9% 5 Terex United States 7,390 4.6% 6 Liebherr Switzerland 7,129 4.5% 7 John Deere United States 6,581 4.1% 8 XCMG China 6,151 3.9% 9 Sany China 5,424 3.4% 10 Doosan Infracore South Korea 5,414 3.4% Other manufacturers include: Atlas Copco Bharat Earth Movers Limited (India) Bobcat Company CASE Chelyabinsk Tractor Plant CNH Global Demag Fiat-Allis HIAB Hyundai Heavy Industries Ingersoll Rand JCB Kubota Kobelco LiuGong MARAIS Navistar International Corporation NCK New Holland Track Marshall Orenstein and Koppel GmbH (O&K) Paccar Poclain Rototilt Shantui ST Kinetics Takeuchi Manufacturing Wacker Neuson Yanmar Zoomlion Wikimedia Commons has media related to Construction vehicles. See also[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Construction equipment. Construction equipment theft Non-road engine Associated Equipment Distributors, the trade association for heavy equipment distributors References[edit] ^ a b C. B. Tatum et al., J. Constr. Engrg. and Mgmt. 132, 987 (2006) ^ Haycraft, William R. "History of Construction Equipment". Journal of Construction Engineering and Management. 137: 720–723. doi:10.1061/(ASCE)CO.1943-7862.0000374. ^ U.S. Department of Labor - Occupational Outlook Handbook ^ V. J. Davies, Ken Tomasin (1996). Construction Safety Handbook. Thomas Telford. ISBN 0-7277-2519-X. ^ Peurifoy & Schexnayder "Construction Planning Equipment, and Methods" McGraw Hill 6th edition ISBN 0-07-232176-8, 2002. ^ Bartholomew, S.H. "Estimating and Bidding for Heavy Construction" CSU Chico, Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-598327-4, 2000 ^ ""Equipment Top 50 (2015 Yellow Table)". International Construction April 2015: page 14". v t e Forestry tools and equipment Tree planting/ afforestation Caulk boots Hoedad (hoedag) Groasis Waterboxx Mattock Pottiputki Root trainer Seed trap Tree planting bar (dibble bar) Tree shelter (Tuley tube) Tree spade Mensuration 3D scanner Angle gauge Biltmore stick Chain Cruising rod Diameter tape Hemispherical photography Inclinometer Increment borer Rangefinder laser Microtome Relascope Tree caliper Wedge prism Fire suppression Aerial firefighting DC-10 UAVs Driptorch Fire flapper Fire rake Fire retardant Helitack McLeod (rakehoe) Pulaski Axes Billhook Broadaxe Froe (shake axe) Hatchet Labrys Log splitter Splitting maul Saws Bow saw Bucksaw Chainsaw safety clothing safety features Crosscut saw Dragsaw Head saw Lumber edger Portable sawmill Resaw Two-man saw Whipsaw Logging Cant hook Feller buncher Forwarder Go-devil Harvester Helicopter Log truck Lombard Steam Log Hauler Michigan logging wheels Peavey Pickaroon Pike pole Skid cone Skidder Washington winch Steam donkey Yarder swing Other Denailer Firewood processor Forest railway Forestry mulcher Hand compass Hand hook Hydraulic debarker Log house moulder Machete Stump grinder Chainsaw mill Tree tyer Tsakat Whoopie sling Wood-drying kiln Woodchipper Forestry portal Categories tools equipment Commons tools equipment WikiProject Forestry v t e Geotechnical engineering Exploration Investigation Testing On-site Cone penetration test Standard penetration test Monitoring well piezometer Borehole Crosshole sonic logging Nuclear densometer test Static load testing Trial pit Laboratory Atterberg limits California bearing ratio Direct shear test Hydrometer Proctor compaction test R-value Sieve analysis Triaxial shear test Hydraulic conductivity tests Water content tests Soil Materials Clay Silt Sand Gravel Peat Permafrost Loam Loess Properties Soil classification Hydraulic conductivity Water content Void ratio Bulk density Thixotropy Reynolds' dilatancy Angle of repose Cohesion Porosity Permeability Specific storage Mechanics Effective stress Pore water pressure Shear strength Overburden pressure Consolidation Compaction Shear wave Lateral earth pressure Foundations Shallow Deep Bearing capacity Dynamic load testing Pile integrity test Wave equation analysis Statnamic load test Retaining walls Gabion Ground freezing Mechanically stabilized earth Pressure grouting Slurry wall Soil nailing Tieback Stability Slope analysis mass wasting landslide Deformation monitoring automated Earthquakes Soil liquefaction Response spectrum Seismic hazard Ground–structure interaction Geosynthetics Geotextile Geomembrane Geosynthetic clay liner Cellular confinement Numerical analysis SEEP2D STABL SVFlux SVSlope UTEXAS Authority control NDL: 00561513 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Heavy_equipment&oldid=852932781" Categories: Heavy equipment Construction equipment Engineering vehicles Geotechnical engineering Hidden categories: Wikipedia introduction cleanup from August 2013 All pages needing cleanup Articles covered by WikiProject Wikify from August 2013 All articles covered by WikiProject Wikify All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014 Commons category link is on Wikidata Commons category link is locally defined Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages العربية Bân-lâm-gú Български Català Dansk Deutsch Español فارسی Français 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית Монгол Nederlands 日本語 Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Русский Svenska தமிழ் ייִדיש 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 1 August 2018, at 09:55 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
