Home | Honors College Skip to main content UNT Menu Search form Search Search Call us Contact Us UNT Map Home Admissions Eligibility Apply Now Tours Academics Course Schedules Earning Honors Credits Advising Honors College Distinctions Honors College Handbook Scholarships Student Life Honors College Community Engagement Form Honors College Programming Council Programming Council Members 2017-18 Alumni Advice Housing Honor Societies at UNT Research UNT Undergraduate Research Fellowship University Scholars Day Eagle Feather Honors Research Poster Print Request McNair Scholars 2019 McNair Research Conference -- General Information Apply to Join McNair Program Information 2018-2019 Faculty Mentors Scholars Alumni Scholars Policies, Documents, and Forms Staff Contact McNair National Scholarships How to Proceed National Award Winners Terry Scholars Alumni Update Your Information Events & Updates Alumni Spotlights Support the Honors College Contact Us Quicklinks Back MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect University Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT University of North Texas Honors College Search form Search Search MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Home Admissions Eligibility Apply Now Tours Academics Course Schedules Earning Honors Credits Advising Honors College Distinctions Honors College Handbook Scholarships Student Life Honors College Community Engagement Form Honors College Programming Council Programming Council Members 2017-18 Alumni Advice Housing Honor Societies at UNT Research UNT Undergraduate Research Fellowship University Scholars Day Eagle Feather Honors Research Poster Print Request McNair Scholars 2019 McNair Research Conference -- General Information Apply to Join McNair Program Information 2018-2019 Faculty Mentors Scholars Alumni Scholars Policies, Documents, and Forms Staff Contact McNair National Scholarships How to Proceed National Award Winners Terry Scholars Alumni Update Your Information Events & Updates Alumni Spotlights Support the Honors College Contact Us MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Search form Search Search Home Admissions Academics Student Life Research McNair Scholars National Scholarships Terry Scholars Alumni Contact Us Honors College Study Abroad with the Honors College Travel in the footsteps of Americans who stormed the beaches at Normandy, liberated Paris, and fought in the Ardennes. Examine the current repercussions of historical events with UNT's Honors College. Register now for Winter and Spring Classes Level up with our new Winter session! Register early for Spring and get ahead of the game! UNT's Newest Residence Hall Available to Honors College Students Rawlins Hall is designed with the academically-focused student in mind, offering an abundance of study rooms, small meeting space, music practice rooms, and activity areas. The connection of Rawlins Hall to the Honors College helps create a supportive atmosphere for residents. Why Honors at UNT? Here at the Honors College, we prepare students for academic challenges and intellectual growth in a world of opportunity. We support our students by preparing them for graduate study, career building, and all the learning pursuits of a lifetime. Click here to learn more about how you can become a member of the Honors College. Alumni Spotlights We are UNT Proud of our alumni. Check out what some of them have been up to since they’ve graduated. Why Honors at UNT? Am I Eligible? How to Earn Honors Credits Living in an Honors Community The honors contracts I completed allowed me to collaborate with my professors in classes within my major to do independent research both on campus and during my study abroad experience in Cannes, France. -- Krystin Rodriguez The many opportunities the Honors College gives its students to meet with one another and share perspectives regardless of academic discipline elevated my Honors College experience. -- Clifford Morrison The Honors College has given me the opportunity to pursue an individualized research track in my area of study that has given me research experience and better prepared me for graduate school and competency in my career field. -- Rachel Shafer Top Main Menu Home Admissions Academics Student Life Research McNair Scholars National Scholarships Terry Scholars Alumni Contact Us University Links MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Email & Phone HonorsCollege@unt.edu 940-565-3305 Honors College Sage Hall 320 1155 Union Circle #310529 Denton, Texas 76203 Visitor Information Call us Email Us UNT Map facebook twitter Instagram YouTube UNT Media Direction Apply now Schedule a tour Get more info Disclaimer | AA/EOE/ADA | Privacy | Electronic Accessibility | Required Links | UNT Home ©2018 University of North Texas Required Links
