Is a payment contract invalid if one party doesn't attempt to collect payment from other parties? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Is a payment contract invalid if one party doesn't attempt to collect payment from other parties? Ask Question up vote 2 down vote favorite I live in a neighborhood with an HOA. Everyone had to sign a contract with them to buy a house here (the company that built the houses owns the HOA). I recently found out, that for the past 10 years, about half of the neighborhood hasn't paid any HOA fees at all. Most of them have never even been contacted by the HOA, and the HOA does literally nothing for our neighborhood. When questioned they actually told us that the fees we pay them, are to process the checks we give them. I know very little about Alabama laws, but I thought I had heard something at one point about if an entity doesn't honor their contracts (by collecting payments), then other parties can consider those same contracts invalid. Is that correct? contract-law contract real-estate alabama share|improve this question edited Jan 10 '17 at 16:09 feetwet♦ 14.3k93991 asked Jan 10 '17 at 3:20 trueCamelType 1134 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 2 down vote accepted It is very unlikely that members of the HOA can consider the contracts invalid because other parties aren't paying their HOA dues. HOA dues are more like taxes than they are like contracts. They are probably mandated by the Declarations filed against the property that created the HOA in the first place. The HOA probably has the right to collect back HOA dues to the extent that the statute of limitations on the dues hasn't expired. Assessment liens in at least some associations need to be filed within a year of when they are due, and can be enforced by a lien foreclosure up to three years after they are due. It may be possible for the Association to simply sue the owner of the property at the time the assessments became due for up to four years. But, fellow owners almost surely don't have that right, and even if you got control of the HOA a few months from now, at least half of the uncollected dues would be more or less permanently lost. There are limitations on what an HOA can do with the money that it does collect, and there are limitations on the rights that a developer like the one apparently running your HOA can retain in managing an HOA in terms of duration and in terms of percentage of units sold. It is very unusual for a developer to stay in control for ten years, unless a large share of the units in the Association remain unsold. Usually, control of the HOA has to be turned over from the developer to the owners of the HOA at some point. If the developer misappropriates the funds you could probably sue the developer for that (individually or as a class of homeowners who have paid) and it would not be unthinkable, although it would be much more difficult, that you might be able to sue the developer for failing to take reasonable action to collect dues on behalf of the HOA. Either kind of lawsuit against the developer would have a statute of limitations attached, however, and would probably not go back ten years. The developer could argue as a defense to a lawsuit for not collecting dues that it wasn't cost effective to sue to collect them. Realistically, any losses more than four years old due to non-collection of dues are probably lost forever, and it would also be very hard to recover excessive compensation that the developer paid to manage the HOA. share|improve this answer answered Jan 10 '17 at 3:50 ohwilleke 46k254117 One reason that the developer still maintains the HOA is that after 10 years, they still haven't sold all of the lots. They haven't even finished developing them. Do you know which law, or can you point me to somewhere that says that it would be improbably for them to be able to collect dues older than 4 years? In that instance, it becomes more cost effective for me to never pay the dues again, and wait for them to try to collect four years of them. – trueCamelType Jan 10 '17 at 4:41 2 Four years is the general statute of limitations in Alabama for breach of contract and breach of lease lawsuits. The three year limit is in one of the condominium acts and the one year limit is in the homeowners association act. Sometimes statutes of limitations are tolled, but there is no obvious grounds for tolling given the facts that you have provided in the question. – ohwilleke Jan 10 '17 at 4:44 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged contract-law contract real-estate alabama or ask your own question. asked 1 year, 10 months ago viewed 95 times active 1 year, 10 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 2Is an electronic signature legally binding if one of the parties is hosting the contract? 3Can other party sneak in new contract terms via termination notice? 4Does there really exist such thing as “no contract” when doing business with other party? 2Is a contract valid if one party doesn't know the other has signed? 0Does “shall” in a contract preclude the other party from performing a task? 0Contract: one party changes the terms after the other has become dependent on deal -2Changes to contract after one party signs 3Contract change after both parties sign 0Does repudiation by one party in a contract allow the other to also repudiate? 2Is a contract valid if one of the party doesn't even read it? Hot Network Questions Blind Person Ball Game How do I justify a mansplainer/misogynist? Mutually invisible foes. How can they fight? Are there any countries having an official celebration for the annexation of foreign territory? What is the maximum age of cats? How do you describe a nut which does not tighten When does the soul leave the body after death? Is there a term for "the user can't use anything wrong" design? Are Agent Barton and Agent Romanoff ever called 'Hawkeye' and 'Black Widow' in the MCU? How was copying prevented when the first CD-ROM games were introduced? Can I hold an action to do something I'm not currently capable of doing? Digital Sumorial The Heisenberg Uncertainty Ray - A Hyper-Scanning Doomsday Weapon Can I not side with my soon-to-be ex-collegues? Cannot be granted promotion due to Company Policy What does a program do when it's sent SIGKILL signal? \tiny etc. in mathmode Is it possible to access the email of a Lead's owner directly? Can't see "home" partition in "other locations" If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? How to affect priorities to bugs to developers and treat them accordingly? Do you remember the name of characters who attempted to revive you? Changing field types so graduated symbols are available more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
