legal terms - Why are magisterial judges not addressed with "your majesty?" - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Why are magisterial judges not addressed with “your majesty?” Ask Question up vote 5 down vote favorite Magisterial judges tend to be lower-level judges, but court officers (e.g., lawyers) still address them as "your honor." It seems, given the title of their office, that "your majesty" would be the most appropriate form of addressing the office. Has that ever been used? If not, are there logical or historical reasons it has not? legal-terms legal-history judge share|improve this question asked Nov 7 '15 at 15:39 feetwet♦ 14.3k93991 2 "your majesty" is a very high form of address, adopted by kings who thought that "your grace" and "my lord" weren't sufficient. In the present day it's generally considered to be reserved for kings, queens, emperors, and empresses. – hobbs Nov 7 '15 at 22:34 2 Conspiracy theory: you might be hinting that this is the proper term for SE mods!! – Pat W. Nov 8 '15 at 1:22 1 @PatW. - Nonsense! Everyone knows that Mods should be addressed as "your Grace!" (Yes, "your Majesty" is acceptable, as is "your Highness;" but I would never advocate for such glorified honorifics!) – feetwet♦ Nov 8 '15 at 3:11 1 It should be noted that until very recently magistrates in New South Wales were called "your worship" – Dale M Nov 8 '15 at 7:37 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 11 down vote accepted tl;dr: The terms have separate etymologies. Majesty derives from greatness, while magistrate comes from mastering something (people or a trade). Majesty Middle English (in the sense 'greatness of God'): from Old French majeste, from Latin majestas, from a variant of majus, major. Also, c. 1300, "greatness, glory," from Old French majeste "grandeur, nobility" (12c.), from Latin maiestatem (nominative maiestas) "greatness, dignity, elevation, honor, excellence," from stem of maior (neuter maius), comparative of magnus "great" (see magnate). Earliest English us is with reference to God; as a title, in reference to kings and queens (late 14c.), it is from Romance languages and descends from the Roman Empire. Magistrate Latin magistratus ‘administrator’, from magister ‘master’. This also gives us master (Old English), its weakened form mister (mid 16th century), and miss. Also, late 14c., "civil officer in charge of administering laws," from Old French magistrat, from Latin magistratus "a magistrate, public functionary," originally "magisterial rank or office," from magistrare "serve as a magistrate," from magister "chief, director" (see master). share|improve this answer answered Nov 7 '15 at 16:01 Pat W. 4,09151641 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged legal-terms legal-history judge or ask your own question. asked 3 years ago viewed 640 times active 3 years ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 5Why are judges allowed to read news and media opinions? 23Are judges immune from prosecution of crimes committed while acting as a judge? 0What motivates judges to rule justly? 2Why do judges wear costumes? 6Law case title convention: Why sometimes not “Plaintiff v. Defendant”? 1Why is the FBI rather than state investigators looking into these judges who take bribes? 0What limits are there to the powers of individual judges in the United States legal system? 4Why 12 Jurors, why not 11, 10, 9, 1? 18Why do judges use a hammer in court? 5Do judges get penalised when their decisions are quashed by a higher court? Hot Network Questions How to deal with anxiety and depression after being kicked out of PhD program? Could we possibly see the shadow offset from Parker Solar probe on Earth? Ideological rebus Secure way to log in to a website on someone else's computer As a course lecturer, should I excuse late assignment submissions if I wrote the assignment deadline slightly wrong? How to improve logic to check whether 4 boolean values match some cases Is Ubuntu compatible with laptops that have touch screen features? Do dev teams put less constraints on themselves or have they less constraints in terms of work hours? The Heisenberg Uncertainty Ray - A Hyper-Scanning Doomsday Weapon Do you remember the name of characters who attempted to revive you? Lost Ethertype in encrypted MACsec frames Proof of Approximate / Exact Bayesian Computation Children's ghost story in 1980s whose character names started A, B, C Digital Sumorial Given an image how to identify whether it is RAW file or not What is this pic rebus mean? If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] Is it halal to marry the daughter of my divorced wife if the child is from her ex-husband? Viva voce question about another student "validating" my results How to affect priorities to bugs to developers and treat them accordingly? Computer Cipher Understanding "jam nunc" Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? Is it possible to access the email of a Lead's owner directly? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
