licensing - Windows 10 Eula Privacy Rights - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Windows 10 Eula Privacy Rights Ask Question up vote 14 down vote favorite 2 Many are claiming that Windows 10's data collection is much more invasive than previous Microsoft products, even claiming that Windows 10 ships with a keylogger and reports every keystroke back to Microsoft. Most locally, this question on the Stack Exchange network makes some of the same claims. However, it seems that many of those sources have conflated the developer pre-release version of Windows 10 with the official release, and I'm having trouble separating the wheat from the chaff. My goal in asking this question is to look past the sensationalist reporting and see what rights Microsoft holds. The official End-User License Agreement for the final retail release of Windows 10 says the following: Privacy; Consent to Use of Data. Your privacy is important to us. Some of the software features send or receive information when using those features. Many of these features can be switched off in the user interface, or you can choose not to use them. By accepting this agreement and using the software you agree that Microsoft may collect, use, and disclose the information as described in the Microsoft Privacy Statement (aka.ms/privacy), and as may be described in the user interface associated with the software features. The referenced Microsoft Privacy Statement says the following: Microsoft collects data to operate effectively and provide you the best experiences with our services. [...] We get some of it by recording how you interact with our services by, for example, using technologies like cookies, and receiving error reports or usage data from software running on your device. We also obtain data from third parties (including other companies). Microsoft uses the data we collect to provide you the services we offer, which includes using data to improve and personalize your experiences. [...] We use data to help make the ads we show you more relevant to you. However, we do not use what you say in email, chat, video calls or voice mail, or your documents, photos or other personal files to target ads to you. Windows 10 ("Windows") is a personalized computing environment that enables you to seamlessly roam and access services, preferences and content across your computing devices from phones to tablets to the Surface Hub. Rather than residing as a static software program on your device, key components of Windows are cloud-based, and both cloud and local elements of Windows are updated regularly, providing you with the latest improvements and features. In order to provide this computing experience, we collect data about you, your device, and the way you use Windows. And because Windows is personal to you, we give you choices about the personal data we collect and how we use it. Putting aside the technical question of what information the software actually does collect (which would be off topic)... From a legal standpoint, in the retail version of Windows 10: How does Microsoft's claim to user data differ from previous versions of Windows? Does Microsoft have the right to record arbitrary keystrokes or clicks made while using their operating system and send that data to external servers? Does Microsoft have the right to share user usage data with third parties (such as advertising agencies), either at a price or without compensation? Despite saying that they currently don't use data directly from our personal files for this purpose, do they have a right to begin doing so at any time? licensing software privacy eula share|improve this question edited Mar 17 '17 at 13:14 Community♦ 1 asked Aug 14 '15 at 19:53 Woodrow Barlow 173117 In what country? Data privacy laws vary by country, and Microsoft's EULA does not override a country's data privacy laws. – cpast Aug 14 '15 at 19:57 @cpast in that case, i suppose asking about the united states would cover the largest audience. – Woodrow Barlow Aug 14 '15 at 19:59 I don't know why everybody is so worked up. Most of these provisions have been in their privacy agreements for as long as I can remember, which is over two decades. Why is there suddenly such a ruckus? – David A. Gray Aug 21 '15 at 19:33 @DavidA.Gray People are just recently actually reading the things – cat Sep 28 '16 at 2:03 add a comment | 2 Answers 2 active oldest votes up vote 10 down vote accepted IANAL. This answer is just a broad picture. It's a simple explanation of Microsoft's own words, as they were at the time of originally writing this (just after the final release of Windows 10). TL;DR: Microsoft does not recognize users' privacy rights. The Microsoft Privacy document does not say anything positive about privacy in this document that isn't contradicted by their own words elsewhere in the same document. Microsoft does explicitly reserve rights to share users' private data with just about anyone and everyone. Microsoft explicitly disallows legal recourse regarding privacy. The Windows 10 EULA comprehensively denies legal recourse related to privacy (and indeed anything other than IP disputes). It's Microsoft's offerings as a whole, not (just) Windows 10 The key document to focus on is Microsoft's Privacy policy document. This policy applies to many Microsoft products and services, including, but definitely not limited to, Windows 10. Microsoft reserve the right to share your private data Quoting the "Privacy" document, Microsoft reserves the right to share users' private data: among Microsoft-controlled affiliates and subsidiaries with vendors or agents working on our behalf as part of a corporate transaction such as a merger or sale of assets [to] comply with applicable law [to] respond to valid legal process [to] protect our customers, for example to prevent spam [to] operate and maintain the security of our services [to] protect the rights or property of Microsoft as necessary to complete any transaction or provide any service you have requested or authorized Do users have any privacy rights? One can presumably fight for one's (perceived) rights even if Microsoft attempts to deny them. However, from the English Windows 10 EULA: you and we agree to try for 60 days to resolve [a dispute] informally. If we can’t, you and we agree to binding individual arbitration ... and not to sue in court Additionally, collective action or any other form of representative action is explicitly disallowed. Windows 10 data collection defaults to "Full" mode You've said that what data is collected is off topic. But I think it's worth recognizing that, with Windows 10, Microsoft have made the most popular install option collect and send to their cloud all data collected from your local device ("Full" collection) and have effectively made it a breach of contract to reduce it below a minimal level ("Basic" collection) that they get to determine and change as they see fit. And they can pretty much enforce the latter; if you hack a system to stop "Basic" data being sent to MS, they explicitly disable updates for that system. share|improve this answer edited Apr 3 '17 at 18:45 answered Aug 15 '15 at 22:23 raiph 21624 [...]if you hack a system to stop "Basic" data being sent to MS, they explicitly disable updates for that system.[...] In this case, how about applying updates manually? Is it possible? – Asad Malik Aug 27 '15 at 16:50 @AsadMalik I don't know. Also, I'm thinking of deleting the last section because it's off topic. – raiph Feb 19 '16 at 21:22 add a comment | up vote 1 down vote To quote from the Microsoft Privacy Statement: "We use data to help make the ads we show you more relevant to you. However, we do not use what you say in email, chat, video calls or voice mail, or your documents, photos or other personal files to target ads to you." So they do not use it to target ads - but they have an open field on anything else they wish to do with the content of email, chat, video calls and voicemail. This 'free' version of windows appears to be a development version and it is sending back debug information to Microsoft. If your personal photos, social security number or credit card details are sent to Microsoft they will not use them for targeting ads but appear to have carte blanche to use them for anything else. share|improve this answer answered Sep 14 '15 at 17:07 Ian W 111 This was already quoted in the question, and I think it was implicit in the sub-questions. – HDE 226868 Sep 14 '15 at 19:29 add a comment | protected by Community♦ Nov 7 '15 at 22:21 Thank you for your interest in this question. Because it has attracted low-quality or spam answers that had to be removed, posting an answer now requires 10 reputation on this site (the association bonus does not count). Would you like to answer one of these unanswered questions instead? Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged licensing software privacy eula or ask your own question. asked 3 years, 3 months ago viewed 16,366 times active 1 year, 8 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 3Consumer rights (UK) - OEM operating system purchased on the basis on invalid requirements 9Is there any law that Windows 10 “spying” might violate? 2Is a Unique Device Identifier personal information? 1Do I still have to include data owner in privacy policy if I do not collect any data? 0EULA for Global Liability 1Would using Windows 10 Home on a PC in a build farm violate the license terms? 0definition of personal data collection related to privacy policy 2Is using method below against the eula of pubg? 2Is Google's privacy policy compliant with GDPR for the data processing agreement between a controller and a processor? 3Can disabling Windows 10 updates be considered a crime? Hot Network Questions Is Ubuntu compatible with laptops that have touch screen features? Term cancellation in limits Lost Ethertype in encrypted MACsec frames Do dev teams put less constraints on themselves or have they less constraints in terms of work hours? Is it possible to remove CPUs from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe? How do you describe a nut which does not tighten Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? Viva voce question about another student "validating" my results Delete with multiple indices is extremely slow--workaround? Ideological rebus Given limited space and weight what should I carry to get a fire going with damp wood? Why don't commercial airplanes carry Earth-observing instruments? Is it acceptable to publish student names with the label stupid question? What does a program do when it's sent SIGKILL signal? Secure way to log in to a website on someone else's computer Does a smell imply particles or chemicals in the air? If 2 Ensnaring Strikes affect the same target, does it have to make 2 saves to be unrestrained? How can I easily separate components of a Kanji character in Illustrator? Can women also go shirtless in public legally? Why do Republicans and others accept the propagandaic use of the term "Progressives"? Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? What definitions were crucial to further understanding? A ring which contains a nonprime maximal ideal How to solder Christmas lights insulated wire? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
