Local Church Leader Arrested in Suzhou | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Local Church Leader Arrested in Suzhou Local Church Leader Arrested in Suzhou 05/04/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 2, 2018 Bitter Winter has learned that on March 16, 2018, a leader of the Local Church whose pseudonym is Yang Zhi, 68 (we do not publish his real name following a request by his friends and family), has been arrested in the city of Suzhou in Anhui Province by the Chinese Communist Party’s SWAT police and remains in detention. His family is not able to see him. The Local Church is a network of communities inspired by the ministry of Chinese preacher Witness Lee (1905–1997). On March 16, 2018, at around 12 a.m., Yang Zhi was heading toward his farmland with his little grandson. Three cars with the logo “SWAT” raced toward them and stopped right in front of Yang. Then, some fully armed police officers jumped out of the cars, arrested Yang and escorted him back home to search his house. The police officers carried out a house search in Yang’s home and videotaped the process. Two copies of the Bible and a speaker were found and confiscated. Later, Yang was taken away by the police. Just as the cars were about to leave, Yang Zhi’s daughter came back after learning the news and took a picture of the cars’ number plates. However, this was noticed by a police officer in the car and her cellphone was snatched away. After Yang’s arrest, his family has tried to save him through bribing the police and treating them to lavish meals. However, they still had not managed to see Yang even once. The police told them that Yang would be released soon if he “would confess everything,” or otherwise sentenced to prison. Yang Zhi remains detained in Xiao County Detention Center, and his current legal situation is unknown. Yang Zhi has been an active Christian for more than 30 years and is well-known among the house churches in the local area. In 1995, he had already been arrested because of his evangelistic activity, and had not been released until his family spent several thousand RMB to bail him out. Tagged With: Chinese Communist Party, Local Church in China Related articles Police Use Funeral to Capture Local Church Preacher Believers Persecuted for Possession of Religious Books Six Local Church Christians Arrested, Preacher Still Detained Shouters’ Preacher Hunted by Communist Party for Years Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Demolition of Temples Impacts Livelihood of Local People (Video) As part of the nationwide campaign, the Wuhan city authorities in Hubei Province... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
