Local Government Destroys Church in Yucheng, Henan | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Local Government Destroys Church in Yucheng, Henan Local Government Destroys Church in Yucheng, Henan 05/20/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 20, 2018 On April 16, 2018, a township government in the city of Shangqiu, Henan, forcibly demolished a church under the excuse of building a culture square. At around 4 p.m., two excavators parked in front of the church, where the town Party secretary and village officials at all levels were present. They dispatched the entire force from the police station to arrest Christians who dared to obstruct the event. Nobody was allowed to take pictures on the scene. Later, a local government official ordered the excavator drivers to start the destruction and, soon, the church was laid to waste. Seeing their church in ruins, elder Shi and believers were indignant, tears welled up in their eyes, but they did not dare to say anything. Local officials have previously repeatedly informed elder Shi about their plan to build a culture square and asked that the believers destroyed the church themselves. Shi did not agree and organized Christians to stay in the church, praying and protecting it from being forcibly demolished. On the day of the destruction, only Shi and a few Christians were guarding the church, so the government and the police saw the chance and carried out the destruction. “The government now imposes tight control over believers in God. The Party secretary of the area has announced in the church that believers must not host meetings at home, or, once discovered, they would be arrested immediately. He also said that pastors must hold a sermon certificate and a baptism certificate, and evangelists must have an evangelism certificate,” a believer told Bitter Winter. “Children and teenagers under 18 are not allowed to attend church meetings and will be prosecuted and sentenced for breaking the law if they were to be found doing so. We can no longer put up pictures of the cross at home, but only portraits of Chairman Mao. The government even warned those elder believers that people who received subsistence allowance must not love the Lord, but the country.” The church gate before being destroyed A government official directing the destruction Excavate machines demolishing the church Excavate machines demolishing the church The church in ruins Tagged With: Chinese Communist Party, Christian Churches Related articles Police Seized a Church and Arrested Christians in Jilin 1500 Believers Will Be Driven From Beijing Zion Church Christian Church Forced to Spread Communist Propaganda When CCP Deployed Nearly 600 to Demolish a Church Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Demolition of Temples Impacts Livelihood of Local People (Video) As part of the nationwide campaign, the Wuhan city authorities in Hubei Province... CCP Calls for Crackdown Against Whistleblowers and Media The internal document issued by Office 610 in Liaoning Province. According to ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
