Metalsmith - Wikipedia Metalsmith From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search A bladesmith from Damascus, ca. 1900 A metalsmith or simply smith is a craftsman fashioning useful items (for example, tools, kitchenware, tableware, jewellery, and weapons) out of various metals. [1] Smithing is one of the oldest metalworking occupations. Shaping metal with a hammer (forging) is the archetypical component of smithing. Often the hammering is done while the metal is hot, having been heated in a forge. Smithing can also involve the other aspects of metalworking, such as refining metals from their ores (traditionally done by smelting), casting it into shapes (founding), and filing to shape and size. The prevalence of metalworking in the culture of recent centuries has led Smith and its equivalents in various languages (German Schmidt, Portuguese Ferreiro, Ferreira, French Lefèvre, Spanish Herrero, Italian Fabbri, Ferrari, Ferrero, Ukrainian Koval etc.) to be a common occupational surname. As a suffix, -smith connotes a meaning of a specialized craftsman—for example, wordsmith and tunesmith are nouns synonymous with writer or songwriter, respectively. Contents 1 History 2 Types of smiths 3 Artisans and craftpeople 4 Machinists 5 References 6 External links History[edit] In pre-industrialized times, smiths held high or special social standing since they supplied the metal tools needed for farming (especially the plough) and warfare. This was especially true in some West African cultures. Types of smiths[edit] A metalsmith is one who works with or has the knowledge and the capacity of working with "all" metals. Illustration by Theodor Kittelsen for Johan Herman Wessel's The Smith and the Baker Types of smiths include:[2] A blacksmith works with iron and steel (this is what is usually meant when referring just to "smith")[3] A bladesmith forges knives, swords, and other blades[4] A brownsmith works with brass and copper[5][citation needed] A coinsmith works strictly with coins and currency A coppersmith works with copper[6] A goldsmith works with gold[7] A gunsmith builds and repairs firearms[8] A locksmith works with locks[9] A silversmith, or brightsmith, works with silver[10] A swordsmith is a bladesmith who forges only swords A tinsmith, tinner, or tinker works with light metal (such as tinware) and can refer to someone who deals in tinware[11] A weapon-smith forges weapons like axes, spears, flails, and other weapons[12] A whitesmith works with white metal (tin and pewter) and can refer to someone who polishes or finishes the metal rather than forging it[13] Artisans and craftpeople[edit] Coppersmith Abdón Punzo in his workshop in Santa Clara del Cobre, Mexico "Aeolus's Weathervane." Detail of a weather vane created by using a variety of metalsmithing techniques The ancient traditional tool of the smith is a forge or smithy, which is a furnace designed to allow compressed air (through a bellows) to superheat the inside, allowing for efficient melting, soldering and annealing of metals. Today, this tool is still widely used by blacksmiths as it was traditionally. The term, metalsmith, often refers to artisans and craftpersons who practice their craft in many different metals, including gold, copper and silver. Jewelers often refer to their craft as metalsmithing, and many universities offer degree programs in metalsmithing, jewelry, enameling and blacksmithing under the auspices of their fine arts programs.[14] Machinists[edit] Machinists are metalsmiths who produce high-precision parts and tools.[15] The most advanced of these tools, CNC machines, are computer controlled and largely automated. References[edit] ^ "Definition of METALSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ John Fuller, Sr., Art of Coppersmithing, Astragal Press, 1993 (reprint of original edition, 1894) ISBN 1879335379[page needed] ^ "Definition of BLACKSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of BLADESMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "A Survey of English Bynames: Brownsmith". medievalscotland.org. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of COPPERSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of GOLDSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of GUNSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of LOCKSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ Rupert Finegold and William Seitz, Silversmithing, Krause Publications, 1983, ISBN 0-8019-7232-9 ^ "Definition of TINSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of WEAPONSMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ "Definition of WHITESMITH". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. ^ Tim McCreight, Jewelry: Fundamentals of Metalsmithing, Hand Books Press, 1997, ISBN 1-880140-29-2 ^ "Definition of MACHINISTS". www.merriam-webster.com. Retrieved 3 April 2018. External links[edit] Look up smith in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikisource has the text of a 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article about Metalsmith. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Smiths. v t e Metalworking v t e Smithing Smiths Blacksmith Bladesmith Coppersmith Goldsmith Gunsmith Locksmith Pewtersmith Silversmith Tinsmith Processes Forging Pattern welding Planishing Raising Sinking Swaging Tools Anvil Forge Fuller Hammer Hardy tools Pritchel Steam hammer Swage block Trip hammer Casting Fabrication Forming Jewellery Machining Metallurgy Smithing Tools and terminology Welding Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Metalsmith&oldid=869972522" Categories: Metalsmiths Hidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from February 2011 Use dmy dates from January 2015 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018 Commons category link is on Wikidata Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Azərbaycanca فارسی 日本語 پنجابی Simple English Türkçe Edit links This page was last edited on 21 November 2018, at 15:41 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
