More Restriction on Religions in China | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Brand New Draft Regulation: More Restriction on Religions in China Brand New Draft Regulation: More Restriction on Religions in China 09/14/2018 Massimo Introvigne Incense burning in Shanghai. Posting a picture like this on the Internet will become illegal in China when the new draft becomes law. Credits: ermell – CC BY-SA 4.0 A new regulation on religion confines mention of religion on any Internet platform to a few government-controlled organizations that will receive a special license for very limited Web activity. All the others and individuals will be punished even for posting a picture of somebody praying, receiving a baptism, or burning incense in a temple. by Massimo Introvigne The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has published this week a draft guideline on regulating online religious information, opening it for comments until October 9. It is presented as “one of the regulations” (not the only one) implementing the new religious law that came into force on February 1, 2018. The draft regulation deals with “religious information including religious doctrines, culture, knowledge and activities promoted through instant messages and various social media platforms in the form of texts, photos, audio and video messages.” Only those government-controlled religious organizations that will apply from “licenses from provincial religious affairs departments” and be granted these licenses, will be allowed to post online religious content. But not even all of the government-controlled religious communities will receive these licenses, and they will still face a number of limitations. For all the others, and for all individuals without exception, posting online religious-related content will become a major crime. As for those authorized, they will be “prohibited from business promotions in the name of religion, distributing religious supplies and publications, establishing religious organizations and venues and proselyting for religion.” Obviously, any religious community “opposing the leadership of the CCP” will be banned from the Internet once and for all. Licensed religious organizations would be “allowed to preach and offer religious training only on their own network platforms built upon real-name registration systems.” Individual Internet users would not be allowed “to post or repost religious contents on the Internet.” “No organizations or individuals,” including those licensed, “will be allowed to live stream or broadcast religious activities including praying, burning incense, worshipping or receiving baptism online in the form of text, photo, audio or video.” Tagged With: Regulation on Religious Affairs Massimo Introvigne Massimo Introvigne (born June 14, 1955 in Rome) is an Italian sociologist of religions. He is the founder and managing director of the Center for Studies on New Religions (CESNUR), an international network of scholars who study new religious movements. Introvigne is the author of some 70 books and more than 100 articles in the field of sociology of religion. He was the main author of the Enciclopedia delle religioni in Italia (Encyclopedia of Religions in Italy). He is a member of the editorial board for the Interdisciplinary Journal of Research on Religion and of the executive board of University of California Press’ Nova Religio. From January 5 to December 31, 2011, he has served as the “Representative on combating racism, xenophobia and discrimination, with a special focus on discrimination against Christians and members of other religions” of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). From 2012 to 2015 he served as chairperson of the Observatory of Religious Liberty, instituted by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to monitor problems of religious liberty on a worldwide scale. http://www.cesnur.org/ Related articles The New Religious Affairs Regulation Came into Force in 2018: What Exactly Happened? Christian Website Shut Down, Its Administrators Arrested 21 Japanese Arrested in China for Preaching CCP Questions 39 Religious Leaders, Removes 16 in Henan Read more Businesses Forced to Remove Religious Signboards Authorities in Henan are coercing the owners at commercial establishments such... Believers Arrested From at Least 14 Cities in Jilin Jilin, Belinsky - CC BY-SA 3.0 More than 100 believers in Almighty G... Henan Authorities Adopt New Measures to Curb Christianity Officials are implementing a variety of new anti-religious activities,... Enough is Enough, Say Chinese House Churches Huang Jinhui - CC BY-SA 4.0 Hundreds of Chinese pastors have signed a declarat... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
