New Rules Will Severely Limit Freedom of Religion of Foreigners in China | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / New Rules Will Severely Limit Freedom of Religion of Foreigners in China New Rules Will Severely Limit Freedom of Religion of Foreigners in China 05/14/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Global Times Date: May 14, 2018 The Global Times, a daily newspaper controlled by the Chinese Communist Party, reported, in an article dated May 9 and in comments in the following days, that China has released draft rules to regulate foreigners’ religious activities. The guidelines, drafted by the State Administration of Religious Affairs, state that foreigners should appoint at least three conveners who would apply for group religious activities at religious venues or temporary sites. Conveners should have clean records, and those working for diplomatic representatives in China and others who also enjoy privileges and immunities cannot serve as conveners, read the guidelines. Foreigners should apply to local religious authorities for group activities in religious venues, and should submit certain information, including the personal information of participants, the qualifications and safety of the temporary site and a description of the religious activity when held at a temporary site, the guidelines say. Group religious activities held by foreigners at religious venues should be presided over by Chinese religious personnel. And for any religious activity that must be presided over by foreigners, the religious venues should inform local government-approved religion authorities, the draft rules say. The guidelines also said that Chinese citizens are not allowed to attend group religious activities organized by foreigners, except Chinese religious personnel appointed by local pro-government religious organizations. When implemented, the guidelines will tighten control over religious activities attended by foreigners and will eliminate certain freedoms from general rules so far enjoyed by businesspersons, diplomats, tourists, and other foreigners traveling or residing temporarily in China. Tagged With: Chinese Communist Party, Religious Liberty, State Administration of Religious Affairs Related articles Tightening Rules on Foreigners Practicing Religions in China Five Churches in Dalian Seized in One Day Expelled From Party for Donating Money to Temple Police Burst Into Church and Arrest Clerics Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Xiamen University; CREDITS Caiguanhao - CC BY-SA 3.0 The CCP exerts an iron ha... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest The Chinese government already maintains a firm grip on citizens’ Internet use. ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
