new york - Non-custodial parent fails to exercise visitation -- what can custodial parent do (NY)? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Non-custodial parent fails to exercise visitation — what can custodial parent do (NY)? Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite 2 I have a friend, ten years old, who is going nuts because his father has rejected him entirely since he lost shared custody. But my friend sees his father around town, and this constantly reopens the wound. Is there anything that can be done legally about this? Mother petitioned to change the court order because father was physically and emotionally abusive to the child. The court order that changed the custody arrangement states that father may have visitation at a certain frequency -- one weekend per month, one day per week, something like that. But since then there have been 0 visits, and father doesn't respond to phone, text, email or snail mail from the child or the mother. The court order acknowledges that the father has unpredictable shift work, and says father should contact mother to arrange dates for visitation. I think some sort of mediation would be best, because mother gets extremely nervous in court, and can't afford a lawyer. The pro bono lawyers in our town are either flaky or impose their own agenda on the person with limited means. They're not like private lawyers, who have the financial motivation to carry out the client's directives. Edit: I found a Parents Handbook with an FAQ at https://www.nycourts.gov/ip/parent-ed/, which says What happens if a custodial parent violates a visitation order? Traditionally, courts have been reluctant to impose a jail sentence when a parent withholds visitation, although it has been done. More common penalties for the persistent withholding of, or interference with, visitation are the suspension of maintenance, transfer of custody, providing make-up time, and/or requiring the payment of counsel fees. new-york family-law share|improve this question edited Dec 23 '15 at 15:29 asked Dec 19 '15 at 15:36 aparente001 182113 The father has a legal he can exercise. Does not mean he has to. – Viktor Dec 19 '15 at 23:18 1 If a father doesn't want to see his child, no matter how bad you think it is, forcing him to see the child is unlikely to produce any positive result. Unless you also force him to pretend that he has any interest in the child and cares one bit about the child. – gnasher729 Dec 22 '15 at 8:58 I think if a mediator asked the father, "How many times per year would feel right for you to see A.?" he would give a non-zero number. – aparente001 Dec 23 '15 at 3:30 I would say a forced relationship is an unhealthy relationship. – Terry Dec 23 '15 at 15:57 So you think if the father spends time with the child, he'll be more willing to pay support on time. Maybe, maybe not. Is there some reason why you haven't tried DCSE to set up a garnishment of his wages? – mkennedy Dec 24 '15 at 0:49 | show 2 more comments 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 4 down vote accepted This question makes me sad. I think the answer will likely not be a legal one but, rather, an emotional one. Courts have many reasons to be reluctant to impose a duty of visitation upon a recalcitrant parent; so courts typically will not. I think the best course of action is for mom (or maybe a helpful third party, but coming from mom first would be best) to call and make an emotional appeal to dad something along the following lines: Despite what happened between us, your son loves you very much. I know that despite what happened, you are a good man. (Even if nobody else actually believes that, be sure dad believes it. So it will be helpful to say this.) I know you love your son too. Your son wants to be closer to you. I would be happy to change the visitation order to whatever you like. (Like above, even if not totally true, it's very helpful to say. It opens hearts, minds and communication channels. If he wants to take her up on this. She should listen and be open to it.) Please visit your son. He wants and needs a relationship with you. Be proactive and appeal to dad's emotions while lowering the overall level of acrimony. Since I'm commenting, I'll also add this in parting. As a practical matter, so many legal actions have unintended adverse consequences and therefore just because we can do them it doesn't mean we should do them in order to get the best outcome. Visitation orders and jail time to enforce child support are good examples of this. Sometimes the acrimony involved in taking away or reducing the amount of time a parent is entitled to spend with their children can cause the parent to spend even less time with the child and ultimately hurt the child. Whose interests and wellbeing should be everyone's top concern. Similarly to the point, putting parents behind bars for not paying child support can make it even more difficult for them the earn the money with which to pay the support they are required to pay. It's a crazy world. share|improve this answer edited Dec 20 '15 at 20:04 aparente001 182113 answered Dec 19 '15 at 18:11 Mowzer 7,33311746 Thank you! Yes, it is a tragedy. Okay, a couple things I left out (sorry): the father was physically and emotionally abusive, hence the change of custody; neither mother nor I want father to go to jail -- we just want him to set up a payment plan to pay the back child support, and we want him to start paying the correct amount, on time, because mother goes nuts when she is not able to pay her bills on time. Father earns three times as much as mother earns. // No way is Father going to allow them to send him to jail -- he is a police officer in our town! And there is ... – aparente001 Dec 19 '15 at 21:10 ... nothing to be gained for Mother or my young friend if Father goes to jail -- he would stop earning, and the child support would go down from the current 80% of the court-ordered amount, to 0. Also, I shudder to think about the effect Father going to jail would have on my young friend. – aparente001 Dec 19 '15 at 21:12 Re visitation: Mother has tried many times to contact Father to set up visitation, but he is unresponsive. // I took dictation from my young friend in August to help him write a letter to his father, and we mailed it to the correct address -- no response. Father has a great deal of difficulty separating his anger at Mother out of all of this. Also, he's not the smartest pea in the pod. – aparente001 Dec 19 '15 at 21:14 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged new-york family-law or ask your own question. asked 2 years, 11 months ago viewed 734 times active 2 years, 11 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 1need terminology for visitation matter 3Can a lay person help a friend bring a petition of violation of child support to Family Court? 2What legal visitation rights do grandparents have with their grandchildren? 4What would happen if my girlfriend got pregnant? 3Divorce case with split custody: Age of child when he/she can be moved out of of state without consent of other parent 3Can residential/custodial parent change our kids health insurance unilaterally? -1What type of lawyer do i need for suing the state? 7In the US, at what age can a child refuse to attend a religious service mandated by their parent? 0Is it illegal for a family member to withhold/hide a child's UK passport from the child's parent? 5Child expressly wishes to live with other parent. What is legal position of that other parent? (in general terms) Hot Network Questions Why would an attacker ever want to sit on a zero-day exploit? Dynamically Cast Map<String, SObject> To Specific SObject An object that is gold in one specific area but becomes worthless if you leave that area? Why does typing an IP address instead of the corresponding domain name not show the website? Is asking your PhD instructor a basic question considered inappropriate? What defines the legitimacy of an IRB? Proof of Approximate / Exact Bayesian Computation What is this glass (???) for? Why is 2 * (i * i) faster than 2 * i * i in Java? Are there any countries having an official celebration for the annexation of foreign territory? The Heisenberg Uncertainty Ray - A Hyper-Scanning Doomsday Weapon Will listing my major GPA instead of my cumulative GPA on my resume cause problems? Isn't acknowledging the existence of God, as a state, a contradiction of the separation of Church and State? Could we possibly see the shadow offset from Parker Solar probe on Earth? Customise voicemail message based on caller How can i measure weight of my cat? How was copying prevented when the first CD-ROM games were introduced? Term cancellation in limits Are there any publically available recordings of conversations between ATC and pilots? How did Euron Greyjoy manage to travel to Valyria and live? How do you describe a nut which does not tighten Why don't commercial airplanes carry Earth-observing instruments? Is the `std::exception`, in its current form, redundant? What is the meaning and use of "seh" in Caribbean dialects of English? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
