News | Bitter Winter - Part 34 Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / Archives for News News 05/26/2018 Bitter Winter Italian Court Acknowledges Persecution of The Church of Almighty God in China, Rejects Accusations of Crimes as Fake News Source: Direct information from Italy Date: May 26, 2018 On May 22, 2018, the Justice Court of Perugia, Italy, annulled a decision by an administrative commission, that had denied an asylum request by a female member of The Church of Almighty God, a Chinese Christian new religious movement, and granted her refugee status. While the […] 05/26/2018 Bitter Winter US Defends Uyghurs at the United Nations Source: Foreign Affairs Date: May 26, 2018 Foreign Affairs reports on changing patterns in the United States’ official attitude toward China’s Uyghur Muslim minority. In the years following 9/11, the US and China found a common enemy in the Uyghurs 05/25/2018 Bitter Winter Believers Wrap the Cross in Black Net to Prevent Its Removal Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 25, 2018 Bitter Winter has learned that the Wantan town government in Zhongmou County, Zhengzhou city had threatened to remove the cross of a Christian church in Lixianwu village under its jurisdiction. To protect the cross, the believers wrapped it in a black net. 05/25/2018 Bitter Winter Authorities Shut Down a Korean House Church in Yunnan Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 25, 2018 In the morning of March 22, 2018, over 100 police officers and officials from various departments surrounded a house church established by Koreans in the Yirenwaitan residential community in the county-level city of Chuxiong, Yunan. The police sealed off the church, drove away its believers and […] 05/24/2018 Bitter Winter New Facts About Re-Education Camps for Muslims and Crackdown on Religions in China Source: China Digital Times Date: May 24, 2018 China Digital Times presents a compilation of reports from academics, human rights organizations, and the media on mass re-education camps for Chinese Muslims in Xinjiang and government’s campaign against religions in China. 05/23/2018 Bitter Winter Petition to Free Falun Gong Prisoners Source: ChinaAid Date: May 23, 2018 ChinaAid reports that lawyers of Falun Gong practitioner Sun Qian, a Canadian citizen jailed in China for her religious practices, issued a petition appealing to Canadian officials and citizens to pay closer attention to the crimes committed against this religious group, calling it “China’s biggest human rights crisis.” 05/23/2018 Bitter Winter School in Gongyi, Henan Forbade a Student to Wear a Jacket with a Cross Pattern Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 23, 2018 A source told Bitter Winter that, on April 20, 2018, the vice-principal of a school in the city of Gongyi in Henan Province ordered a student to change clothes because she wore a jacket with a cross pattern. 05/23/2018 Bitter Winter Elderly Christian Arrested for Religious Videos Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 23, 2018 Bitter Winter continuously receives direct reports from China about the government’s activities to crack down on various religions in the country. Quite often, the ways the authorities harass the believers is hard to comprehend and strange, to say the least. Like this particular report about a […] 05/23/2018 Bitter Winter Chinese Communist Party Bans Its Members From Professing Religious Beliefs Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 23, 2018 The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) requires its members to be staunch atheists and forbids them from believing in any religion. In reality, some Party members are also Christians, and the Party severely tramples their religious freedom sometimes depriving them of their livelihood. Bitter Winter presents such […] 05/23/2018 Bitter Winter Member of the Shouters Detained in Yantai, Shandong Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 21, 2018 Bitter Winter has learned about the arrest of a member of the Shouters – Christians in the tradition of Chinese preachers Watchman Nee and Witness Lee that have been long targeted by the Chinese Government. After being on the list of wanted persons for two years […] « Previous Page Page 1 … Page 32 Page 33 Page 34 Page 35 Page 36 … Page 39 Next Page » Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
