News | Bitter Winter - Part 36 Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / Archives for News News 05/17/2018 Bitter Winter Over a Million Communist Party Officials to Invade Uyghur Muslims’ Homes Source: CNN Date: May 17, 2018 CNN reports about the Chinese government’s decision to send over a million Communist Party officials to live with Uyghur Muslim families in the western region of Xinjiang. Families will have to provide detailed information on their daily lives and political views. In return, the live-in officials not only will […] 05/17/2018 Bitter Winter Living Stone Church Pastor Sentenced and Fined Source: Christian Solidarity Worldwide Date: May 17, 2018 Christian Solidarity Worldwide reports that after a trial on 26 April, Pastor Su Tianfu from Living Stone Church in Guizhou Province was sentenced to one year in prison, suspended for two years, and six months’ residential surveillance. Despite several appeals, Pastor Su and the church’s other pastor, […] 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter Chinese Government Officials: Demolishing Churches and Cracking Down on Christianity Is the Central Committee’s Spirit Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 15, 2018 Henan is a province with a large Christian population in China. In 2018, it suffered the most severe religious persecution by the Chinese Communist Party: churches seized, crosses removed, minors banned from going to church — these events have been a common occurrence. 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter Authorities Pressure Two Beijing House Churches and Their Landlords Source: ChinaAid Date: May 15, 2018 ChinaAid reports that, in the past weeks, law enforcement officers harassed two Beijing house churches – Holy Love Fellowship and another church that chose to remain anonymous. Authorities pressured the landlords of the churches’ buildings to revoke their leases. 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter One-Year-Old Child Prohibited From Attending Holy Grace Church in Tanghe, Henan Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 15, 2018 The newly revised Regulations on Religious Affairs forbid any kind of religious education to minors on sites of religious activities. To enforce this policy, local governments in Henan province issued notices banning minors from entering the church and participating in religious activities. Authorities impose this ban […] 05/15/2018 Bitter Winter U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom Condemns the Repression of Uighur Muslims in China Source: The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom Date: May 15, 2018 The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) is concerned about the Chinese government’s increasing crackdown on Muslims in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region. The government has instituted a comprehensive security grid throughout the region using both personnel 05/15/2018 Bitter Winter Over a Hundred Members of the Early Rain Covenant Church Taken Away by the Police Source: Guizhou petitioner Wang Shuying’s Twitter message:https://twitter.com/beiking8964 Date: May 15, 2018 On May 12, the Party police crushed the prayer gathering on the 10th anniversary of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake held by the Early Rain Covenant Church in Chengdu. Over 100 church members were taken away by the police. 05/15/2018 Bitter Winter Town Government in Linzhou, Henan, Raids House Churches Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 15, 2018 Since mid-April 2018, the town government in Linzhou, Henan, has dispatched many people to all villages under its jurisdiction to work with local village officials and disrupt Christian religious activities. 05/15/2018 Bitter Winter The Church of Almighty God Honored in Italy with an Award for Its Resistance to Persecution Source: La Stampa and others Date: May 15, 2018 As reported by the leading Italian daily La Stampa, and several others, on May 14 2018, the Turin Book Fair, the third largest book fair in Europe, hosted the conclusion of the FIRMA-Faiths in Tune festival, a 5-day event where religious groups offered musical performances. Two […] 05/14/2018 Bitter Winter Chinese Government Increases Measures Against Religion in Schools Source: ChinaAid Date: May 13, 2018 ChinaAid reports on the government’s violations of the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of religious belief by prohibiting citizens from participating in religious activities in schools. « Previous Page Page 1 … Page 34 Page 35 Page 36 Page 37 Page 38 Page 39 Next Page » Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
