News | Bitter Winter - Part 38 Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / Archives for News News 05/08/2018 Bitter Winter Chinese Communist Party Uses Community Administrators to Collect Information on Believers Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 6, 2018 Recently, the Chinese government has divided local “grassroots” communities into a grid pattern, with each grid made up of 15 to 20 households, which are monitored by a designated person called the “grid administrator.” These persons must fully familiarize themselves with the residents of their grid […] 05/07/2018 Bitter Winter The Police Seize a Three-Self Church in Changyuan, Henan Province, and Arrest Pastors Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 5, 2018 On April 16, 2018, the police seized a Three-Self church in Huichi Village, Wuqiu Township, Changyuan County in Henan Province’s Xinxiang City, and arrested its two pastors. The church belongs to the Three-Self Patriotic Movement, the Protestant body controlled by the regime in China. 05/04/2018 Bitter Winter Documents and Pictures We Obtained from China Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 4, 2018 Bitter Winter was able to obtain from China some rare images of the crackdown against religious activities involving minors and the public preaching of religion that is taking place in China. The first document has been distributed by a school in Henan and its translation […] 05/04/2018 Bitter Winter House Church Christians Sentenced Under the False Accuse of Being Members of the Three Grades of Servants Source: China Aid and CESNUR Date: May 3, 2018 China Aid has reported that on April 24, the Dali Intermediate Court in Dali, Yunnan, ruled that Christians Tu Yan and Su Min had participated in the Three Grades of Servants, a religious institution listed as a xie jiao by the Chinese government. Tu received a […] 05/04/2018 Bitter Winter Local Church Leader Arrested in Suzhou Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 2, 2018 Bitter Winter has learned that on March 16, 2018, a leader of the Local Church whose pseudonym is Yang Zhi, 68 (we do not publish his real name following a request by his friends and family), has been arrested in the city of Suzhou in Anhui […] 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter Falun Gong’s Lawsuit Against China Anti-Cult Association in Flushing Is Allowed to Proceed Source: Law.com Date: May 1, 2018 The Chinese Anti-Xie-Jiao Association, an entity with direct links to the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) created to generate and spread propaganda against the religious movements the regime has listed and 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter Minors Banned from Participating in Religious Activities in China Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 1, 2018 The Regulations on Religious Affairs, revised at the 176th Executive Meeting of the State Council on June 14, 2017, became effective as of February 1, 2018. It states inter alia that it is forbidden to hold any religious activities involving minors. 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter China Criticized at the United Nations’ Human Rights Council Sources: International Service for Human Rights and direct information Date: May 1, 2018 Every five years, each member state of the United Nations comes before the Human Rights Council (HRC) in Geneva for its Universal Periodic Review (UPR) with respect to the human rights situation in the country. China’s UPR is scheduled for November 6, […] 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter Surveillance Cameras Installed in Christian Churches Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 1, 2018 Since early this year, the Chinese Communist government has strengthened surveillance and control of Christianity in mainland China. Recently, Bitter Winter learned that surveillance cameras have been installed in Christian churches in Zhejiang. In Beijing as well, surveillance cameras have been forcibly installed in the meeting […] 05/02/2018 Bitter Winter Pressure Mounts Against Members of The Church of Almighty God Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 1, 2018 As part of the consequences of the new law on religion, which came into effect on February 1, 2018, Bitter Winter has learned that members of The Church of Almighty God, one of the Christian new religious movements banned in China as xie jiao (“heterodox teachings”), […] « Previous Page Page 1 … Page 36 Page 37 Page 38 Page 39 Next Page » Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
