Next generation of ballet stars to shine at Abu Dhabi Classics - The National | SUBSCRIBE 29°c Abu Dhabi UAE Friday Nov 30, 2018 29° H:29 ° L:18 ° Saturday H:28 ° L:17 ° 28° Sunday H:27 ° L:21 ° 27° Monday H:25 ° L:22 ° 25° Tuesday H:25 ° L:21 ° 25° Wednesday H:25 ° L:20 ° 25° Thursday H:25 ° L:19 ° 25° Last Update on: 30/11/2018 @ 07:00AM 05:27 Fajr Abu Dhabi EMU Friday Nov 30,2018 Fajr 05:27 Shurooq 06:45 Dhuhr 12:13 Asr 15:15 Maghrib 17:36 Isha 18:54 Abu Dhabi, UAEFriday 30 November 2018 Arts&Culture Film Art Books Music On Stage Television Comment Arts&Culture On Stage x Abu Dhabi, UAEFriday 30 November 2018 UAE Edition International Edition Prayer Times Weather UAE Courts Education Environment Government Health Transport Heritage Science Podcasts Comment WORLD GCC MENA Asia Africa Europe The Americas Oceania Comment BUSINESS Economy Banking Aviation Property Energy Technology Travel and Tourism Comment Markets Money OPINION Comment Editorial Feedback Cartoon ARTS&CULTURE Film Art Books Music On Stage Television Comment LIFESTYLE Fashion Food Luxury Travel Family Home Wellbeing Motoring Comment SPORT UAE Football World Cup 2018 Cricket F1 Golf Horse Racing Tennis Rugby North American Comment Other Sport VIDEOS SUBSCRIBE About Us Contact Us Work With Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Advertise with Us Subscribe Sitemap Next generation of ballet stars to shine at Abu Dhabi Classics To be a student at Milan’s Accademia Teatro alla Scala is as much a psychological test as physical one Saeed Saeed November 8, 2018 Updated: November 8, 2018 03:25 PM 0 shares 0 shares x ‘Gymnopedie’, with choreography by Roland Petit for La Scala. Photo by Alessia Santambrogio To study at Milan’s famed Accademia Teatro alla Scala means early morning starts: the students wake up just after sunrise, have breakfast and start limbering up for a full day of classes as they learn various techniques and styles and from some of the world’s best instructors. The brain gets a workout as well; nestled between those dance sessions are academic classes where they learn subjects such as maths, Italian and science. The all-round approach makes the institution one of the world’s best, with some alumni going on to be top world dancers. Moscow’s Bolshoi Theatre’s leading soloist is La Scala graduate, Jakopo Tissi, and another alumnus is former Royal Ballet principal dancer Mara Galeazzi. In an interview with The National, she described life at the academy as gruelling, yet ultimately rewarding. “There is an element of giving up on certain things in life,” she said. “But if you have the passion for it, you don’t really think about that too much.” School of life That combination of passion and perseverance will be on display on Friday night when students perform a showcase as part of Abu Dhabi Classics. The students will take on select pieces from productions including La Bayadere, Erik Satie’s Gymnopedie and August Bournonville’s Napoli. True to the academy’s educational approach, managing director Luisa Vinci said the Abu Dhabi show is akin to an important field trip. “The students are very excited to come,” she told us from Milan. “These shows are very important for their development, but not only when it comes to performance, it is also about seeing the different cultures of the world. We are all excited about visiting and learning about the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque and Louvre Abu Dhabi.” The close to 20 dancers performing in Abu Dhabi are aged between 16 and 18, but their youth masks their experience and resilience. Some of them have been with the academy since the age of eight, and have sacrificed a traditional family upbringing in a quest for excellence. How to make it at La Scala The emotional price of a La Scala education is high, and so Vinci says the audition process for any of the 34 courses at the academy is based on psychology as well as performance. “What is their motivation? That’s one of the things we look for in the speech that they give us in an audition,” she says. “As well as the talent, which of course is important, we need to see if the students have the psychological capacity to stay in the ballet for up to eight years and to learn in a hard way. For example, one of our courses is made of 1,600 hours a year. It is not easy.” Vinci describes the ideal La Scala student as “a positive competitor.” He says dance academies can arm students with life skills that will keep them in good-stead. “You learn patience and that life is about give and take,” Vinci says. La Scala Academy Rising Stars will perform at Emirates Palace, Abu Dhabi on Friday. Tickets are from Dh50 and are available at www.ticketmaster.ae _____________________________ Read more:' Kathak dancers: why they were more than just 'dance girls' Swan Lake: the greatest of all fairy-tale ballets floats into Dubai A 515-seat theatre is opening on the QE2 – and it could be you on stage Dubai Festival for Youth Theatre set to be the ‘most distinguished’ so far EDITOR'S PICKS MENA Lebanon says two men admit murder of radio host Gavin Ford FASHION Race to the runway: the other side of Lewis Hamilton RUGBY Magnificent Sevens: How Dubai’s rugby fiesta found a home MONEY Money & Me: 'My electricity got cut off and I spent a night without power or water' BOOKS Why 'Fire & Blood' is a perfect stopgap for Game of Thrones fans Most Read DCT Abu Dhabi appoints director of Qasr Al Hosn The line-up for Saudi Arabia's most high-profile music festival Ask Ali: Why pork is forbidden for Muslims VFX expert says working with Rajinikanth was a ‘pleasure’ Follow Us Read the paper View the paper as it appeared in print Download the e-reader RELATED ARTICLES ON STAGE Mammootty and Mohanlal's Kerala relief concert in Abu Dhabi ON STAGE Review: Dave Chappelle’s Dubai show was brief but on point ON STAGE Cirque du Soleil debuts new show 'Bazzar' in India ON STAGE Sutradhar: telling a Mahabharata story with a modern twist Videos HERITAGE National Day car parade: it's the little decals that matter UAE US Expo 2020 Dubai pavilion 'open, accessible and creative' HERITAGE Abu Dhabi's war memorial an 'oasis of dignity' for UAE's heroes ENVIRONMENT Abu Dhabi’s Al Wathba Wetland marked as a protected area on international list Recommended ART Tarek Al-Ghoussein's quest to photograph all 215 of Abu Dhabi islands BOOKS Book review: Why George R R Martin's 'Fire & Blood' is a perfect stopgap for Game of Thrones fans MUSIC Enrique Iglesias to play at new Palm Jumeirah location The Pointe MUSIC David Guetta, Enrique Iglesias and The Black Eyed Peas to perform at Saudi Arabia's biggest music festival UAE Courts Education Environment Government Health Transport Heritage Science Podcasts Comment World GCC MENA Asia Africa Europe The Americas Oceania Comment Business Economy Banking Aviation Property Energy Technology Travel and Tourism Comment Markets Money Opinion Comment Editorial Feedback Cartoon Arts&Culture Film Art Books Music On Stage Television Comment Lifestyle Fashion Food Luxury Travel Family Home Wellbeing Motoring Comment Sport UAE Football World Cup 2018 Cricket F1 Golf Horse Racing Tennis Rugby North American Comment Other Sport Videos About Us Contact Us Work With Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Advertise with Us Subscribe Sitemap
