Number One - Wikipedia Number One From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Look up number one or numero uno in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Number One, No. 1, or #1 may refer to: 1 (number) Contents 1 Albums 2 Songs 3 Film 4 Characters 5 Other uses 6 See also Albums[edit] Number 1 (Big Bang album), and the title song No. 1 (BoA album), and the title song n.1 (David Carreira album) #1 (Fischerspooner album) Number One (Billie Godfrey album), and the title song #1 (Linda Király album) Number One (Pist.On album) Number One (M Trill album) Number One (My Chemical Romance EP) Number 1 (O-Zone album), and the title song Number One (Racine album) Number One (Sanchez album) #1 (Stacy album) No. 1 (Teen Top album) The Beatles (No. 1), by the Beatles #1, by Felix Songs[edit] "No.1" (BoA song) "No.1" (Uverworld song) "Numba 1" (Tide Is High), by Kardinal Offishall "Number 1" (Goldfrapp song) "Number 1" (Tinchy Stryder song) "Number One" (Alexia song) "Number One" (John Legend song) "Number One" (Pharrell Williams song) "Number One" (R. Kelly song) "Number One" (Skye Sweetnam song) "Numero Uno" (Starlight song), a 1989 Italian House single by the band Starlight (AKA Black Box) "#1" (Nelly song) We Are Number One, a song from the popular children's TV show LazyTown "#1", by Animal Collective "No. 1", from the television series Tweenies "Number 1", by Big Bang from Number 1 "Number One", by A from How Ace Are Buildings "Number One", by Al Lindsay from the Thrillville: Off the Rails in-game soundtrack "Number One", by Chas Jankel from Looking at You "Number One", by Gentle Giant from Civilian "Number One", by Heavenly from Coming from the Sky "Number One", by Helloween from Pink Bubbles Go Ape "Number One", by Jamie Foxx from Intuition "Number One", by Lower Than Atlantis from the self-titled album "Number One", by Max Farenthide "Number One", by Playgroup "Number One", by The Rutles "Number One", by Tadpole from The Buddhafinger Film[edit] Number One (1969 film), a starring Charlton Heston Number One (1973 film), an Italian language film Number One (1976 film), a short film by Dyan Cannon Number One (1985 film), a starring Bob Geldof as a snooker player Number One (1994 film), a 1994 Telugu film Number One (2017 film), a French film No. 1 (film series), the first in a series of films with Govinda in the title role Characters[edit] Number One (Artemis Fowl), a demon character in the Artemis Fowl novel series Number One (Babylon 5), a recurring character in the TV series Babylon 5 Number One, John Cavil, a Cylon model in the reimagined version of Battlestar Galactica Number 1, Ernst Stavro Blofeld, chief of SPECTRE in James Bond novels and films Numbuh 1, leader of Sector V, from Codename: Kids Next Door Number One (Golgafrinchan), a character from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy by Douglas Adams Number One, a character in the novel series H.I.V.E. by Mark Walden Number One (The Prisoner), a character in the television series The Prisoner Number One, the head of the Stonecutters in the Simpsons episode "Homer the Great" Number One (Star Trek), the unnamed second-in-command character in the pilot episode of Star Trek "Number One", Captain Picard's frequent way of addressing William Riker in Star Trek: The Next Generation Robbie Rotten, a LazyTown villain played by Stefán Karl Stefánsson who sang the song We Are Number One Other uses[edit] No. 1 (or variants), the top spot, or a song or album reaching the top spot, on any record chart Number 1, a book by Billy Martin and Peter Golenbock Number One (guitar) Number One (magazine), a UK music magazine Number 1 (painting), by Jackson Pollock No 1 (Royal Red and Blue), a 1954 painting by Mark Rothko Number One (Royal Navy) El Número Uno, a Spanish TV talent show "Number One", an episode of My Name Is Earl Number 1, a slang term for urination Number One (video), the first DVD video release by Greek singer Elena Paparizou No. 1 (yacht), assisted by an electric motor that gets its electricity from hydrogen fuel cells Number One, Kentucky, a community in the United States Rifle, Number 1, a British rifle Ruger No. 1, an American rifle See also[edit] One (disambiguation) Number 1's (disambiguation) Category:Number-one singles Disambiguation page providing links to articles with similar titles This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the title Number One. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article. Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Number_One&oldid=869893254" Categories: Disambiguation pages Hidden categories: Disambiguation pages with short description All article disambiguation pages All disambiguation pages Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano Nederlands Suomi Edit links This page was last edited on 21 November 2018, at 01:58 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
