Officials in Henan Force Three-Self Church Believers to Renounce Their Faith | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Officials in Henan Force Three-Self Church Believers to Renounce Their Faith Officials in Henan Force Three-Self Church Believers to Renounce Their Faith 05/18/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 18, 2018 Bitter Winter received information that government officials in Luohe city, Henan Province, forced believers in Three-Self churches to sign the statement of guarantee and renounce their belief, threatening them to revoke their subsistence allowance and disqualify their children from joining the army and attending college. On April 20, 2018, a village official from Dengxiang town, Shaoling district in Luohe city and the director of the local Committee of the Women’s Federation visited Yang Hua (pseudonym). They threatened that her children would not be able to join the army or the Party or go to college if she continued to believe in Jesus. They presented Yang with a statement of guarantee renouncing belief in God, which she had no choice but to sign. “I know that believing in the Lord is the right path of life, but they threatened me with policies. If I hadn’t signed, the prospects of my children would have been affected,” Yang admitted with a sense of helplessness. On the same day, a village official also came to a seventy-year-old believer in the same village and intimidated her, “If you continue to believe in Jesus, your allowance for the poor rural household will be stopped.” The son of this elder believer died last year, and her daughter-in-law abandoned the family, leaving two young kids at home. As a poor household, she and her husband are too old to work and can only sustain the family relying on their subsistence allowance. Having no choice, she also signed the statement. Other three believers went through the same experience that day, but they refused to sign the statement or give up their faith. Tagged With: Three-Self Church Related articles Chinese Communist Party Bans Its Members From Professing Religious Beliefs Officials in Fuyang, Anhui, Chase Away Minors from a Three-Self Church Five Churches in Dalian Seized in One Day Believers Protect Their Church From Demolition Day and Night Read more Party Songs Instead of Prayer Churches across China are forced to sing songs praising the Communist Party or e... Church in Henan Forcibly Demolished (VIDEOS) The church before its demolition. The authorities claimed that a government-co... Facial Recognition Checks to Enter a Church The front door of the church is locked and fenced off with iron wire. Anyone w... Over 600 Crosses Removed in Henan (Videos) Lian’gou Village Church in Baitu town, Luanchuan county of Luoyang city before ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
