One-Year-Old Child Prohibited From Attending Holy Grace Church in Tanghe, Henan | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / One-Year-Old Child Prohibited From Attending Holy Grace Church in Tanghe, Henan One-Year-Old Child Prohibited From Attending Holy Grace Church in Tanghe, Henan 05/16/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 15, 2018 The newly revised Regulations on Religious Affairs forbid any kind of religious education to minors on sites of religious activities. To enforce this policy, local governments in Henan province issued notices banning minors from entering the church and participating in religious activities. Authorities impose this ban even on babies who are brought to church by their relatives. Bitter Winter has learned what happened on the Sunday of May 6, 2018, in the Holy Grace Church in Tanghe County, Nanyang city, Henan province. Between 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., some believers gathered at the Holy Grace Church to attend a meeting. An elder person in his nineties was among them. Since he has difficulties to move around himself, his son drove a three-wheeler and took him and his one-year-old great-grandson to the church. Seeing the infant, the supervisor of the church ordered to take the child away immediately. A female police officer in plain clothes, designated to supervise the church by the Chengjiao Township Police Station, guarded the door. She scolded them that no child under 18 was allowed in the church. Hearing this, the son of the elder believer explained: “My father is old and could not come to the church himself. I drove him here together with my grandson. Otherwise, the child would be left unattended.” The police officer then yelled: “You’re lucky that today it is just me who saw it. If higher authorities caught you, you would have been fined 200 RMB. Take the child and leave at once!” A believer who observed this incident said: “He is just a one-year-old child, what can he know?” The police officer replied: “That makes no difference. Get out, now!” The son of the elder believer had no choice but to leave with his grandchild. Bitter Winter has also learned that the government forcibly removed the cross at the Holy Grace Church in September 2017 and, since then, always monitors the meetings of believers. The local government deployed dedicated agents to supervise the church, preventing minors under 18 from entering the building. On May 2018, a banner outside the Holy Grace Church in Tanghe County, Henan province, says: “It is prohibited to proselytize in schools or educational bodies other than religious schools.” On September 22, 2017, the largest cross of the Holy Grace Church in Tanghe caught fire while being removed. (Source: Internet) Tagged With: Holy Grace Church, Regulation on Religious Affairs Related articles Businesses Forced to Remove Religious Signboards Protestant Church Demolished in Xinxiang, Henan Believers Arrested From at Least 14 Cities in Jilin Muslim and Other Religious Beliefs Banned in Xinjiang Schools Read more Businesses Forced to Remove Religious Signboards Authorities in Henan are coercing the owners at commercial establishments such... Believers Arrested From at Least 14 Cities in Jilin Jilin, Belinsky - CC BY-SA 3.0 More than 100 believers in Almighty G... Henan Authorities Adopt New Measures to Curb Christianity Officials are implementing a variety of new anti-religious activities,... Enough is Enough, Say Chinese House Churches Huang Jinhui - CC BY-SA 4.0 Hundreds of Chinese pastors have signed a declarat... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
