Over a Hundred Members of the Early Rain Covenant Church Taken Away by the Police | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Over a Hundred Members of the Early Rain Covenant Church Taken Away by the Police Over a Hundred Members of the Early Rain Covenant Church Taken Away by the Police 05/15/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Guizhou petitioner Wang Shuying’s Twitter message:https://twitter.com/beiking8964 Date: May 15, 2018 On May 12, the Party police crushed the prayer gathering on the 10th anniversary of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake held by the Early Rain Covenant Church in Chengdu. Over 100 church members were taken away by the police. At 7 a.m., a large number of police officers rushed into the church building. Many believers who were about to leave the building were intercepted and threatened by the police and community workers. The church building, school, and library of the Early Rain Covenant Church were sealed off. Many Bibles, hymnals, and other books were taken away by the police. The police forcibly removed the believers from the site and took them to Fenghuangshan Police Station and other police stations. At 9:20 a.m., the police took away the fourth group of 45 believers, 11 children among them. On May 12, the Party police crushed the prayer gathering on the 10th anniversary of the 2008 Sichuan earthquake held by the Early Rain Covenant Church in Chengdu. Over 100 church members were taken away by the police. The church building, school, and library of the Early Rain Covenant Church were sealed off. Many Bibles, hymn books, and other books were taken away by the police. On the morning of May 12, many believers who were about to leave the house were intercepted and threatened by the police and community workers. At 7 a.m. on May 12, a large number of police officers rushed into the church building of the Early Rain Covenant Church in Chengdu. At 9:20 a.m. on May 12, the police took away the fourth group of 45 believers, 11 children among them, who arrived at the prayer gathering. Many believers’ cellphones were snatched away by the police. The first three groups of believers were sent to Laijiadian Relief Station, some to Fenghuangshan Police Station and some to other police stations. Related articles Police Close the Early Rain Covenant Church Living Stone Church Pastor Sentenced and Fined Police Stormed House Church and Detained 18 Christians in Yichun, Jiangxi No Religion for Communist Party Members in China Read more More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed It’s a common practice for Chinese law enforcement authorities to use hotels and... Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Local authorities in parts of China are organizing “alternative” events nearby t... Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Xiamen University; CREDITS Caiguanhao - CC BY-SA 3.0 The CCP exerts an iron ha... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
