Over a Million Communist Party Officials to Invade Uyghur Muslims' Homes | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Over a Million Communist Party Officials to Invade Uyghur Muslims’ Homes Over a Million Communist Party Officials to Invade Uyghur Muslims’ Homes 05/17/2018 Bitter Winter Source: CNN Date: May 17, 2018 CNN reports about the Chinese government’s decision to send over a million Communist Party officials to live with Uyghur Muslim families in the western region of Xinjiang. Families will have to provide detailed information on their daily lives and political views. In return, the live-in officials not only will look for any religious elements at homes but will also provide “political education” to the Uyghur households. The “home-stay” program, supposedly started as a means “to maintain social stability and achieve lasting security,” expanded greatly from the Chinese government’s attempt to monitor the Muslim population of Xinjiang in 2014. In just four years, the number of officials involved in the program has grown almost tenfold. The regional government continues to arrest and imprison many Uyghurs increasingly relying on high-tech tools, such as surveillance cameras, mandatory GPS trackers in cars and DNA collection for all residents aged 12 to 65, and mass mobilization programs. Last year, authorities also enacted an anti-extremist law. Tagged With: Chinese Communist Party, Muslim Uyghurs Related articles The Whole Village Sent to Re-Education Camp in Shihezi, Xinjiang Senator Rubio, U.S. Congress Investigate Persecution of Uyghurs Ethnic Uyghur Officials Persecuted “Home-Stay” Program for Uyghur Muslims: Stories From the Frontline Read more Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Established in the 19th century, the church and its parish in Shanxi’s Dongergou... Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Some members of the underground Catholic clergy in China believe that the Vati... Demolition of Temples Impacts Livelihood of Local People (Video) As part of the nationwide campaign, the Wuhan city authorities in Hubei Province... “Studies” in Prison: Staff Member Uncovers Details of a Xinjiang Camp... Bitter Winter continues exposing the lies by Chinese authorities about the “tr... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
