privacy - Is a Unique Device Identifier personal information? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Is a Unique Device Identifier personal information? Ask Question up vote 2 down vote favorite From Apple's Privacy Policy: Collection and Use of Non-Personal Information We also collect data in a form that does not, on its own, permit direct association with any specific individual. We may collect, use, transfer, and disclose non-personal information for any purpose. The following are some examples of non-personal information that we collect and how we may use it: We may collect information such as occupation, language, zip code, area code, unique device identifier Is this self contradicting? Isn't a unique identifier a direct association with the specific individual? privacy share|improve this question asked Oct 29 '15 at 1:22 chown 1134 add a comment | 2 Answers 2 active oldest votes up vote 2 down vote accepted The UDID (Universal Device IDentifier) identifies a device uniquely. Apple doesn't know who is the owner of the device. If you read a bit further, if the UDID gets combined with personal information, like your name, then it becomes personal information with accordingly stronger protection. The UDID is used for example if you lock your phone after it is stolen - the UDID gets added to a database of locked phones, and if the thief tries to reinstall the software on it, that is refused because the phones UDID is reported stolen. Similar, if a company buys 100 phones to be used only by the company, the UDIDs of these phones are registered so that trying to reinstall the software on the phone will always connect that phone to the company. share|improve this answer answered Nov 28 '15 at 20:09 gnasher729 10.4k1025 add a comment | up vote 0 down vote No, it's a direct association with a particular device just like a license plate is associated with a particular car. Neither, on its own identifies a person. share|improve this answer answered Oct 29 '15 at 1:36 Dale M 48.8k12769 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged privacy or ask your own question. asked 3 years, 1 month ago viewed 164 times active 3 years ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 14Windows 10 Eula Privacy Rights 5Is personal information of arrestees published publicly? 1Do US companies have an obligation to protect of personal information? 4Is it legal to publish personal information obtained in public? 6Getting New York based company to delete my personal information 2In which contexts can a landlord disclose a prospective tenant's personal information to third parties? -1To what limit does personal information need to be deleted? 0What is the process of requesting collected personal information for a major company online? 2Removal of made public personal information. Privacy laws 4How much privacy about my health am I giving up if I participate in my employer's wellness screening program? Hot Network Questions Is it acceptable to publish student names with the label stupid question? Children's ghost story in 1980s whose character names started A, B, C How do you describe a nut which does not tighten Why is novelty mandatory for a Ph.D. degree? Does the algorithm of the Greeks produce all prime numbers? Why is 2 * (i * i) faster than 2 * i * i in Java? Can I hold an action to do something I'm not currently capable of doing? Are Agent Barton and Agent Romanoff ever called 'Hawkeye' and 'Black Widow' in the MCU? MorphoPHONOLOGY Question Could we possibly see the shadow offset from Parker Solar probe on Earth? Is the `std::exception`, in its current form, redundant? A doubt about waves(why exactly diffraction occurs) Is asking your PhD instructor a basic question considered inappropriate? Given limited space and weight what should I carry to get a fire going with damp wood? Does wire color matter in electronics? What is this glass (???) for? Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] Digital Sumorial How to deal with anxiety and depression after being kicked out of PhD program? Finding magnitude of a complex number Can women also go shirtless in public legally? Does LPPL allow package development with pull requests etc.? Can I buy only the glass in the Christmas market? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
