Robotic spacecraft - Wikipedia Robotic spacecraft From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search An artist's interpretation of the MESSENGER spacecraft at Mercury A robotic spacecraft is an unmanned spacecraft, usually under telerobotic control. A robotic spacecraft designed to make scientific research measurements is often called a space probe. Many space missions are more suited to telerobotic rather than manned operation, due to lower cost and lower risk factors. In addition, some planetary destinations such as Venus or the vicinity of Jupiter are too hostile for human survival, given current technology. Outer planets such as Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune are too distant to reach with current manned spaceflight technology, so telerobotic probes are the only way to explore them. Many artificial satellites are robotic spacecraft, as are many landers and rovers. Contents 1 History 2 Design 2.1 Structure 2.2 Data handling 2.3 Attitude determination and control 2.4 Landing on hazardous terrain 2.5 Entry, descent, and landing 2.6 Telecommunications 2.7 Electrical power 2.8 Temperature control and protection from the environment 2.9 Propulsion 2.9.1 Monopropellant 2.9.2 Bipropellant 2.9.3 Ion 2.10 Mechanical devices 2.11 Robotic vs. unmanned spacecraft 3 Control 4 Space probes 5 SpaceX’s Dragon 6 Robotic spacecraft service vehicles 7 See also 8 References 9 External links History[edit] A replica of Sputnik 1 at the U.S. National Air and Space Museum A replica of Explorer 1 The first robotic spacecraft was launched by the Soviet Union (USSR) on 22 July 1951, a suborbital flight carrying two dogs Dezik and Tsygan.[1] Four other such flights were made through the fall of 1951. The first artificial satellite, Sputnik 1, was put into a 215-by-939-kilometer (116 by 507 nmi) Earth orbit by the USSR) on 4 October 1957. On 3 November 1957, the USSR orbited Sputnik 2. Weighing 113 kilograms (249 lb), Sputnik 2 carried the first living animal into orbit, the dog Laika.[2] Since the satellite was not designed to detach from its launch vehicle's upper stage, the total mass in orbit was 508.3 kilograms (1,121 lb).[3] In a close race with the Soviets, the United States launched its first artificial satellite, Explorer 1, into a 193-by-1,373-nautical-mile (357 by 2,543 km) orbit on 31 January 1958. Explorer I was a 80.75-inch (205.1 cm) long by 6.00-inch (15.2 cm) diameter cylinder weighing 30.8 pounds (14.0 kg), compared to Sputnik 1, a 58-centimeter (23 in) sphere which weighed 83.6 kilograms (184 lb). Explorer 1 carried sensors which confirmed the existence of the Van Allen belts, a major scientific discovery at the time, while Sputnik 1 carried no scientific sensors. On 17 March 1958, the US orbited its second satellite, Vanguard 1, which was about the size of a grapefruit, and remains in a 360-by-2,080-nautical-mile (670 by 3,850 km) orbit as of 2016[update]. Nine other countries have successfully launched satellites using their own launch vehicles: France (1965), Japan and China (1970), the United Kingdom (1971), India (1980), Israel (1988), Iran (2009), North Korea (2012), and New Zealand (2018).[4] Design[edit] This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (October 2007) In spacecraft design, the United States Air Force considers a vehicle to consist of the mission payload and the bus (or platform). The bus provides physical structure, thermal control, electrical power, attitude control and telemetry, tracking and commanding.[5] JPL divides the "flight system" of a spacecraft into subsystems.[6] These include: Structure[edit] NASA’s Orion spacecraft approaching the robotic asteroid capture vehicle This is the physical backbone structure. It: provides overall mechanical integrity of the spacecraft ensures spacecraft components are supported and can withstand launch loads Data handling[edit] This is sometimes referred to as the command and data subsystem. It is often responsible for: command sequence storage maintaining the spacecraft clock collecting and reporting spacecraft telemetry data (e.g. spacecraft health) collecting and reporting mission data (e.g. photographic images) Attitude determination and control[edit] See also: Attitude control system This system is mainly responsible for the correct spacecraft's orientation in space (attitude) despite external disturbance-gravity gradient effects, magnetic-field torques, solar radiation and aerodynamic drag; in addition it may be required to reposition movable parts, such as antennas and solar arrays.[7] Landing on hazardous terrain[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) In planetary exploration missions involving robotic spacecraft, there are three key parts in the processes of landing on the surface of the planet to ensure a safe and successful landing.[8] This process includes a entry into the planetary gravity field and atmosphere, a descent through that atmosphere towards a intended/targeted region of scientific value, and a safe landing that guarantees the integrity of the instrumentation on the craft is preserved. While the robotic spacecraft is going through those parts, it must also be capable of estimating its position compared to the surface in order to ensure reliable control of itself and its ability to maneuver well. The robotic spacecraft must also efficiently perform hazard assessment and trajectory adjustments in real time to avoid hazards. To achieve this, the robotic spacecraft requires accurate knowledge of where the spacecraft is located relative to the surface (localization), what may pose as hazards from the terrain (hazard assessment), and where the spacecraft should presently be headed (hazard avoidance). Without the capability for operations for localization, hazard assessment, and avoidance, the robotic spacecraft becomes unsafe and can easily enter dangerous situations such as surface collisions, undesirable fuel consumption levels, and/or unsafe maneuvers. Entry, descent, and landing[edit] This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Integrated sensing incorporates an image transformation algorithm to interpret the immediate imagery land data, perform a real-time detection and avoidance of terrain hazards that may impede safe landing, and increase the accuracy of landing at a desired site of interest using landmark localization techniques. Integrated sensing completes these tasks by relying on pre-recorded information and cameras to understand its location and determine its position and whether it is correct or needs to make any corrections (localization). The cameras are also used to detect any possible hazards whether it is increased fuel consumption or it is a physical hazard such as a poor landing spot in a crater or cliff side that would make landing very not ideal (hazard assessment). Telecommunications[edit] Components in the telecommunications subsystem include radio antennas, transmitters and receivers. These may be used to communicate with ground stations on Earth, or with other spacecraft.[9] Electrical power[edit] The supply of electric power on spacecraft generally come from photovoltaic (solar) cells or from a radioisotope thermoelectric generator. Other components of the subsystem include batteries for storing power and distribution circuitry that connects components to the power sources.[10] Temperature control and protection from the environment[edit] Main article: Spacecraft thermal control Spacecraft are often protected from temperature fluctuations with insulation. Some spacecraft use mirrors and sunshades for additional protection from solar heating. They also often need shielding from micrometeoroids and orbital debris.[11] Propulsion[edit] Main article: Spacecraft propulsion This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Spacecraft propulsion is a method that allows a spacecraft to travel through space by generating thrust to push it forward.[12] However, there isn’t one universally used propulsion system: monopropellant, bipropellant, ion propulsion, and etc. Each propulsion system generates thrust in slightly different ways with each system having its own advantages and disadvantages. But, most spacecraft propulsion today is based on rocket engines. The general idea behind rocket engines is that when an oxidizer meets the fuel source, there is explosive release of energy and heat at high speeds, which propels the spacecraft forward. This happens due to one basic principle known as Newton’s Third Law. According to Newton, “to every action there is an equal and opposite reaction.” As the energy and heat is being released from the back of the spacecraft, gas particles are being pushed around to allow the spacecraft to propel forward. The main reason behind the usage of rocket engine today is because rockets are the most powerful form of propulsion there is. Monopropellant[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) For a propulsion system to work, there is usually always an oxidizer line and a fuel line. This way, the spacecraft propulsion is controlled. But in a monopropellant propulsion, there is no need for an oxidizer line and only requires the fuel line.[13] This works due to the oxidizer being chemically bonded into the fuel molecule itself. But for the propulsion system to be controlled, the combustion of the fuel can only occur due to a presence of a catalyst. This is quite advantageous due to making the rocket engine lighter and cheaper, easy to control, and more reliable. But, the downfall is that the chemical is very dangerous to manufacture, store, and transport. Bipropellant[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) A bipropellant propulsion system is a rocket engine that uses a liquid propellent.[14] This means both the oxidizer and fuel line are in liquid states. This system is unique because it requires no ignition system, the two liquids would spontaneously combust as soon as they come into contact with each other and produces the propulsion to push the ship forward. The main benefit for having this technology is because that these kinds of liquids have relatively high density, which allows the volume of the propellent tank to be small, therefore increasing space efficacy. The downside is the same as that of monopropellant propulsion system: very dangerous to manufacture, store, and transport. Ion[edit] This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) An ion propulsion system is a type of engine that generates thrust by the means of electron bombardment or the acceleration of ions.[15] By shooting high-energy electrons to a propellant atom (neutrally charge), it removes electrons from the propellant atom and this results the propellant atom becoming a positively charged atom. The positively charged ions are guided to pass through positively charged grids that contains thousands of precise aligned holes are running at high voltages. Then, the aligned positively charged ions accelerates through a negative charged accelerator grid that further increases the speed of the ions up to 90,000 mph. The momentum of these positively charged ions provides the thrust to propel the spacecraft forward. The advantage of having this kind of propulsion is that it is incredibly efficient in maintaining constant velocity, which is needed for deep-space travel. However, the amount of thrust produced is extremely low and that it needs a lot of electrical power to operate. Mechanical devices[edit] Mechanical components often need to be moved for deployment after launch or prior to landing. In addition to the use of motors, many one-time movements are controlled by pyrotechnic devices.[16] Robotic vs. unmanned spacecraft[edit] Robotic spacecraft are specifically designed system for a specific hostile environment.[17] Due to their specification for a particular environment, it varies greatly in complexity and capabilities. While an unmanned spacecraft is a spacecraft without personnel or crew and is operated by automatic (proceeds with an action without human intervention) or remote control (with human intervention). The term 'unmanned spacecraft' does not imply that the spacecraft is robotic. Control[edit] Robotic spacecraft use telemetry to radio back to Earth acquired data and vehicle status information. Although generally referred to as "remotely controlled" or "telerobotic", the earliest orbital spacecraft – such as Sputnik 1 and Explorer 1 – did not receive control signals from Earth. Soon after these first spacecraft, command systems were developed to allow remote control from the ground. Increased autonomy is important for distant probes where the light travel time prevents rapid decision and control from Earth. Newer probes such as Cassini–Huygens and the Mars Exploration Rovers are highly autonomous and use on-board computers to operate independently for extended periods of time.[18][19] Space probes[edit] Main article: Space probe A space probe is a robotic spacecraft that does not orbit Earth, but instead, explores further into outer space.[1] A space probe may approach the Moon; travel through interplanetary space; flyby, orbit, or land on other planetary bodies; or enter interstellar space. SpaceX’s Dragon[edit] Main article: SpaceX Dragon An example of a fully robotic spacecraft in the modern world would be SpaceX’s Dragon.[20] The SpaceX Dragon is a robotic spacecraft designed to send not only cargo to Earth’s orbit, but also humans as well. The SpaceX Dragon’s total height is 7.2 m (23.6 ft) with a diameter of 3.7 m (12 ft). The total launch payload mass is 6,000 kg (13,228 lbs) and a total return mass of 3,000 kg (6,614 lbs), along with a total launch payload volume of 25m^3 (883 ft^3) and a total return payload volume of 11m^3 (388 ft^3). The total duration of the Dragon in Earth’s orbit is two years. In 2012 the SpaceX Dragon made history by becoming the first commercial robotic spacecraft to deliver cargo to the International Space Station and to safely return cargo to Earth in the same trip. This feat that the Dragon made was only achieved previously by governments. Currently the Dragon is meant to transfer cargo because of its capability of returning significant amounts of cargo to Earth despite it originally being designed to carry humans. Departure shot of Pluto by New Horizons, showing Pluto's atmosphere backlit by the Sun. A space probe is a scientific space exploration mission in which a spacecraft leaves Earth and explores space. It may approach the Moon, enter interplanetary, flyby or orbit other bodies, or approach interstellar space. Robotic spacecraft service vehicles[edit] AERCam Sprint released from the Space Shuttle Columbia payload bay MDA Space Infrastructure Servicing vehicle — an in-space refueling depot and service spacecraft for communication satellites in geosynchronous orbit. Launch planned for 2015.[21][needs update] Mission Extension Vehicle is an alternative approach that does not utilize in-space RCS fuel transfer. Rather, it would connect to the target satellite in the same way as MDA SIS, and then use "its own thrusters to supply attitude control for the target."[22] See also[edit] Spaceflight portal Robotics portal Astrobotic Technology Geosynchronous satellite Human spaceflight Space observatory Timeline of Solar System exploration Automated cargo spacecraft References[edit] ^ Asif Siddiqi, Sputnik and the Soviet Space Challenge, University Press of Florida, 2003, ISBN 081302627X, p. 96 ^ Dr. David Whitehouse (2002-10-28). "First dog in space died within hours". BBC NEWS World Edition. Archived from the original on 2002-10-28. Retrieved 2013-05-10. The animal, launched on a one-way trip on board Sputnik 2 in November 1957, was said to have died painlessly in orbit about a week after blast-off. Now, it has been revealed she died from overheating and panic just a few hours after the mission started. ^ "Sputnik 2, Russian Space Web". 3 November 2012. ^ Bob Christy (2013-05-10). "Firsts in Space: Firsts in Space". Zarya. Archived from the original on 2013-05-10. Retrieved 2013-05-10. ^ "Air University Space Primer, Chapter 10 – Spacecraft Design, Structure And Operation" (PDF). USAF. ^ "Chapter 11. Typical Onboard Systems". JPL. ^ Wiley J. Larson; James R. Wertz(1999). Space Mission Analysis and Design, 3rd edition. Microcosm. pp. 354. ISBN 978-1-881883-10-4, ^ Howard, Ayanna (January 2011). "Rethinking public–private space travel". Space Policy. 29: 266 – via Science Direct. ^ LU. K. KHODAREV (1979). "Space Communications". The Great Soviet Encyclopedia. Archived from the original on 1979. Retrieved 2013-05-10. The transmission of information between the earth and spacecraft, between two or more points on the earth via spacecraft or using artificial means located in space (a belt of needles, a cloud of ionized particles, and so on), and between two or more spacecraft. ^ Wiley J. Larson; James R. Wertz(1999). Space Mission Analysis and Design, 3rd edition. Microcosm. pp. 409. ISBN 978-1-881883-10-4, ^ "Micrometeoroid and Orbital Debris (MMOD) Protection" (PDF). NASA. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-10-29. Retrieved 2013-05-10. ^ Hall, Nancy (May 5, 2015). "Welcome to the Beginner's Guide to Propulsion". NASA. ^ Zhang, Bin (October 2014). "A verification framework with application to a propulsion system". Expert Systems with Applications. 41: 5669 – via Science Direct. ^ Chen, Yang (April 2017). "Dynamic modeling and simulation of an integral bipropellant propulsion double-valve combined test system". Acta Astronautica. 133: 346–374 – via Science Direct. ^ Patterson, Michael (August 2017). "Ion Propulsion". NASA. ^ Wiley J. Larson; James R. Wertz(1999). Space Mission Analysis and Design, 3rd edition. Microcosm. pp. 460. ISBN 978-1-881883-10-4, ^ Davis, Phillips. "Basics of Space Flight". NASA. ^ K. Schilling; W. Flury (1989-04-11). "AUTONOMY AND ON-BOARD MISSION MANAGEMENT ASPECTS FOR THE CASSINI-TITAN PROBE" (PDF). ATHENA MARS EXPLORATION ROVERS. Archived from the original (PDF) on 1989-04-11. Retrieved 2013-05-10. Current space missions exhibit a rapid growth in the requirements for on-board autonomy. This is the result of increases in mission complexity, intensity of mission activity and mission duration. In addition, for interplanetary spacecraft, the operations are characterized by complicated ground control access, due to the large distances and the relevant solar system environment[…] To handle these problemsn, the spacecraft design has to include some form of autonomous control capability. ^ "Frequently Asked Questions (Athena for kids): Q) Is the rover controlled by itself or controlled by scientists on Earth?" (PDF). ATHENA MARS EXPLORATION ROVERS. 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-10-29. Retrieved 2013-05-10. Communication with Earth is only twice per sol (martian day) so the rover is on its own (autonomous) for much of its journey across the martian landscape. Scientists send commands to the rover in a morning "uplink" and gather data in an afternoon "downlink." During an uplink, the rover is told where to go, but not exactly how to get there. Instead, the command contains the coordinates of waypoints toward a desired destination. The rover must navigate from waypoint to waypoint without human help. The rover has to use its "brain" and its "eyes" for these instances. The "brain" of each rover is the onboard computer software that tells the rover how to navigate based on what the Hazcams (hazard avoidance cameras) see. It is programmed with a given set of responses to a given set of circumstances. This is called "autonomy and hazard avoidance." ^ Anderson, Chad (November 2013). "Rethinking public–private space travel". Space Policy. 29: 266–271 – via Science Direct. ^ "Intelsat Picks MacDonald, Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. for Satellite Servicing". press release. CNW Group. Archived from the original on 2011-05-12. Retrieved 2011-03-15. MDA plans to launch its Space Infrastructure Servicing ("SIS") vehicle into near geosynchronous orbit, where it will service commercial and government satellites in need of additional fuel, re-positioning or other maintenance. ... MDA and Intelsat will work together to finalize specifications and other requirements over the next six months before both parties authorize the build phase of the program. The first refueling mission is to be available 3.5 years following the commencement of the build phase. ^ Morring, Frank, Jr. (2011-03-22). "An End To Space Trash?". Aviation Week. Retrieved 2011-03-21. ViviSat, a new 50-50 joint venture of U.S. Space and ATK, is marketing a satellite-refueling spacecraft that connects to a target spacecraft using the same probe-in-the-kick-motor approach as MDA, but does not transfer its fuel. Instead, the vehicle becomes a new fuel tank, using its own thrusters to supply attitude control for the target. ... [the ViviSat] concept is not as far along as MDA. External links[edit] NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Russia's unmanned Moon missions NASA Home Page v t e Spaceflight General Astrodynamics History Timeline Space Race Asian Space Race Records Accidents and incidents Space policy China European Union India Japan Russia Soviet Union United States Space law Outer Space Treaty Rescue Agreement Space Liability Convention Registration Convention Moon Treaty Private spaceflight Applications Astronomy Earth observation Archaeology Imagery and mapping Reconnaissance Weather and environment monitoring Satellite communications Internet Radio Telephone Television Satellite navigation Commercial use of space Space launch market competition Militarisation of space Space architecture Space exploration Space research Space technology Space weather Human spaceflight General Astronaut Life support system Animals in space Bioastronautics Space suit Extravehicular activity Weightlessness Space toilet Space tourism Space colonization Programs Vostok Mercury Voskhod Gemini Soyuz Apollo Skylab Apollo–Soyuz Space Shuttle Mir Shuttle–Mir International Space Station Shenzhou Tiangong Health issues Effect of spaceflight on the human body Space adaptation syndrome Health threat from cosmic rays Psychological and sociological effects of spaceflight Space and survival Space medicine Space nursing Spacecraft Launch vehicle Rocket Spaceplane Robotic spacecraft Satellite Space probe Lander Rover Self-replicating spacecraft Space telescope Spacecraft propulsion Rocket engine Electric propulsion Solar sail Gravity assist Destinations Sub-orbital Orbital Geocentric Geosynchronous Interplanetary Interstellar Intergalactic Space launch Direct ascent Escape velocity Expendable and reusable launch systems Launch pad Non-rocket spacelaunch Spaceport Ground segment Flight controller Ground station (Pass) Mission control center Space agencies CoNAE ASA AEB CSA CNSA ESA CNES DLR ISRO LAPAN ISA ISA ASI JAXA NADA KARI SUPARCO Roscosmos SNSA SSAU UKSA NASA Category Portal WikiProject v t e Spaceflight lists and timelines Timeline of spaceflight General Space exploration outline timeline Spaceflight records Space Race Asian Space Race Rocket and missile technology Human spaceflight General Manned spacecraft timeline Spaceflights 1961–1970 1971–1980 1981–1990 1991–2000 2001–2010 2011–present by program Soviet Russian Vostok Soyuz Mercury Gemini Apollo Skylab Shenzhou Gaganyaan Spacelab Salyut Expeditions Spaceflights manned unmanned Spacewalks Visitors Mir Expeditions Spaceflights manned unmanned Spacewalks Visitors ISS Expeditions Spaceflights manned unmanned Spacewalks Visitors Shuttle Crews Missions timeline Rollbacks People Astronauts by name by year of selection by first flight Apollo Gemini Chinese European Cosmonauts female Jewish Muslim Arab African-American Space travelers by name Space travelers by nationality timeline EVA 1965–1999 2000–2014 2015–present Cumulative spacewalk records Spacewalkers Solar System exploration Timeline Interplanetary voyages Landings on other planets artificial objects Objects at Lagrangian points Probes active leaving the Solar System lunar probes Missions to the Moon Timeline of satellites Sample-return mission Mars Earth-orbiting satellites Climate research Communications satellite firsts CubeSats PocketQube Earth observation satellites timeline Geosynchronous orbit GOES Kosmos Magnetospheric NRO TDRS USA Vehicles Orbital launch systems Comparison Sounding rockets Spacecraft unmanned manned Upper stages Launches by rocket type Ariane Atlas Black Brant Falcon 9 and Heavy H-I and H-II Long March Proton PSLV R-7 (including Semyorka, Molniya, Vostok, Voskhod and Soyuz) Scout Thor and Delta Titan V-2 tests Zenit Launches by spaceport Satish Dhawan Agencies, companies and facilities Communications satellite companies comparison Private spaceflight companies Rocket launch sites Space agencies Spacecraft manufacturers Other mission lists and timelines First orbital launches by country NASA missions Constellation missions Timeline of private spaceflight Timeline of longest spaceflights v t e The Solar System The Sun Mercury Venus Earth Mars Ceres Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto Haumea Makemake Eris Planets Terrestrial planets Mercury Venus Earth Mars Giant planets Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Dwarf planets Ceres Pluto Haumea Makemake Eris Rings Jovian Saturnian (Rhean) Charikloan Chironean Uranian Neptunian Haumean Moons Terrestrial Moon other near-Earth objects Martian Phobos Deimos Jovian Ganymede Callisto Io Europa all 79 Saturnian Titan Rhea Iapetus Dione Tethys Enceladus Mimas Hyperion Phoebe all 62 Uranian Titania Oberon Umbriel Ariel Miranda all 27 Neptunian Triton Proteus Nereid all 14 Plutonian Charon Nix Hydra Kerberos Styx Haumean Hiʻiaka Namaka Makemakean S/2015 (136472) 1 Eridian Dysnomia Exploration (outline) Discovery astronomy timeline Space probes list timeline Human spaceflight space stations list Colonization Mercury Venus Moon Mars Ceres Asteroids mining Comets Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto Deep space Small Solar System bodies Meteoroids Minor planets moons Comets Damocloids Mercury-crossers Venus-crossers Venus trojans Near-Earth objects Earth-crossers Earth trojans Mars-crossers Mars trojans Asteroid belt Asteroids Ceres Pallas Juno Vesta more Families Notable asteroids Kirkwood gap Main-belt comets Jupiter trojans Jupiter-crossers Centaurs Saturn-crossers Uranus trojans Uranus-crossers Neptune trojans Cis-Neptunian objects Trans-Neptunian objects Neptune-crossers Plutoids Kuiper belt Plutinos Cubewanos Scattered disc Detached objects Sednoids Hills cloud Oort cloud Hypothetical objects Vulcan Vulcanoids Theia Phaeton Planet V Fifth giant Planet X Planet Nine Tyche Nemesis Subsatellites Lists Solar System models Solar System objects by size by discovery date Minor planets names Gravitationally rounded objects Possible dwarf planets Natural satellites Comets Outline of the Solar System Portals Solar System Astronomy Earth sciences Mars Jupiter Uranus Cosmology Solar System → Local Interstellar Cloud → Local Bubble → Gould Belt → Orion Arm → Milky Way → Milky Way subgroup → Local Group → Local Sheet → Virgo Supercluster → Laniakea Supercluster → Observable universe → Universe Each arrow (→) may be read as "within" or "part of". v t e Mobile robots and uncrewed vehicles Aerial Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) Unmanned aircraft system Aerobot Helicam List of unmanned aerial vehicle applications Unmanned combat air vehicle (UCAV) Unmanned Aircraft Ornithopter Ground Walking Humanoid (list) Android (list) Hexapod (list) Other Unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) Automated guided vehicle (AGV) Unmanned ground combat vehicle (UGCV) Driverless car Automatic train operation (ATO) (list) Underwater Unmanned underwater vehicle (UUV) Autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) Intervention AUV (I-AUV) Remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROUV) Underwater glider Surface Unmanned surface vehicle (USV) Space Unmanned space vehicle (USV) Robotic spacecraft (list) Robotic telescope Space probe Unmanned resupply spacecraft (list) Other Domestic Military Rescue Medical Disability Agricultural BEAM robotics Microbotics Nanorobotics See also Uncrewed vehicle Robotics Robot locomotion Autonomous robot Autonomous logistics Radio-controlled model Remote control vehicle Remote control animal Categories Radio control Unmanned vehicles v t e Robotics Main articles Outline Glossary Index History Future Geography Hall of Fame Ethics Laws Competitions AI competitions Types Anthropomorphic Humanoid Android Cyborg Claytronics Companion Animatronic Industrial Articulated arm Domestic Educational Entertainment Juggling Military Medical Service Disability Agricultural Food service Retailing BEAM robotics Soft robotics Uncrewed vehicle Classifications Biorobotics Aerial vehicle Ground vehicle Mobile robot navigation Microbotics Nanorobotics Robotic spacecraft Space probe Swarm Underwater Locomotion Tracks Walking Hexapod Climbing Self-balancing unicycle Research Evolutionary Kits Simulator Suite Open-source Software Adaptable Developmental Paradigms Ubiquitous Related Technological unemployment Fictional robots Category Portal Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Robotic_spacecraft&oldid=868323826" Categories: Spacecraft Embedded systems Unmanned spacecraft Hidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2016 All articles containing potentially dated statements Articles to be expanded from October 2007 All articles to be expanded Articles using small message boxes Articles needing additional references from June 2018 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles in need of updating from January 2016 All Wikipedia articles in need of updating Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages العربية Català Español Esperanto فارسی 한국어 Bahasa Indonesia Lietuvių 日本語 پنجابی Português Română Suomi Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 11 November 2018, at 13:40 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
