Sentence (law) - Wikipedia Sentence (law) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search "Sentencing" redirects here. For the TV episode, see Sentencing (The Wire). The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United Kingdom and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (August 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message) Criminal procedure Criminal trials and convictions Rights of the accused Fair trial Pre-trial Speedy trial Jury trial Counsel Presumption of innocence Exclusionary rule1 Self-incrimination Double jeopardy2 Verdict Conviction Acquittal Not proven3 Directed verdict Sentencing Mandatory Suspended Custodial Discharge Guidelines Totality5, 6 Dangerous offender4, 5 Capital punishment Execution warrant Cruel and unusual punishment Imprisonment Life imprisonment Indefinite imprisonment Post-sentencing Parole Probation Tariff 6 Life licence6 Miscarriage of justice Exoneration Pardon Sex offender registration Sexually violent predator legislation1 Related areas of law Criminal defenses Criminal law Evidence Civil procedure Portals Law Criminal justice 1 US courts 2 Not in English/Welsh courts 3 Scottish courts 4 English/Welsh courts 5 Canadian courts 6 UK courts v t e A sentence is a decree of punishment of the court in criminal procedure. In law, a sentence forms the final explicit act of a judge-ruled process as well as the symbolic principal act connected to their function. The sentence can generally involve a decree of imprisonment, a fine, and/or other punishments against a defendant convicted of a crime. Those imprisoned for multiple crimes will serve a consecutive sentence (in which the period of imprisonment equals the sum of all the sentences served sequentially, or one after the next), a concurrent sentence (in which the period of imprisonment equals the length of the longest sentence where the sentences are all served together at the same time), or somewhere in between, sometimes subject to a cap. Additional sentences include intermediate, or those served on the weekend (usually Fri-Sun); determinate, or a specific set amount of time (90 days); and indeterminate, which are those that have a minimum and maximum time (90 to 120 days). If a sentence is reduced to a less harsh punishment, then the sentence is said to have been "mitigated" or "commuted". Rarely (depending on circumstances), murder charges are "mitigated" and reduced to manslaughter charges. However, in certain legal systems, a defendant may be punished beyond the terms of the sentence (e.g., social stigma, loss of governmental benefits, or collectively, the collateral consequences of criminal charges). Statutes often specify the range of penalties that may be imposed for various offences, and sentencing guidelines sometimes regulate what punishment within those ranges can be imposed given a certain set of offence and offender characteristics. However, in some jurisdictions, prosecutors have great influence over the punishments actually handed down, by virtue of their discretion to decide what offences to charge the offender with and what facts they will seek to prove or to ask the defendant to stipulate to in a plea agreement. It has been argued that legislators have an incentive to enact tougher sentences than even they would like to see applied to the typical defendant since they recognize that the blame for an inadequate sentencing range to handle a particularly egregious crime would fall upon legislators, but the blame for excessive punishments would fall upon prosecutors.[1] Sentencing law sometimes includes "cliffs" that result in much stiffer penalties when certain facts apply. For instance, an armed career criminal or habitual offender law may subject a defendant to a significant increase in his sentence if he commits a third offence of a certain kind. This makes it difficult for fine gradations in punishments to be achieved. Contents 1 History 2 Classification 3 Philosophies 4 Process 5 See also 6 References 7 External links History[edit] Felony Sentences in State Courts, study by the United States Department of Justice. The first use of this word with this meaning was in Roman law, where it indicated the opinion of a jurist on a given question, expressed in written or in oral responsa. It was also the opinion of senators (that was translated into the senatus consultus). It finally was also the decision of the judging organ (both in civil and in penal trials), as well as the decision of the Arbiters (in arbitration). In modern Latin systems the sentence is mainly the final act of any procedure in which a judge, or more generally an organ is called to express his evaluation, therefore it can be issued practically in any field of law requiring a function of evaluation of something by an organ. Classification[edit] Sentences are variously classified depending on the legal field, or kind of action, or system it refers to: civil, penal, administrative, canon, ..., sentence. sentences of mere clearance, of condemnation, of constitution. the issuing organ (typically a monocratic judge or a court, or other figures that receive a legitimation by the system). the jurisdiction and the legal competence: single judges, courts, tribunals, appeals, supreme courts, constitutional courts, etc., meant as the various degrees of judgement and appeal. the content: partial, cautelar, interlocutory, preliminar (sententia instructoria), definitive sentences. sentence of absolutio (discharge) or condemnatio (briefly damnatio, also for other meanings - condemnation). The sentences of condemnation are also classified by the penalty they determine: sentence of reclusion, sentence of fee, sententia agendi, sentence that impose a determined action (or a series of action) as a penalty for the illegal act. This kind of sentence became better developed and remained in wider use in common law systems. Philosophies[edit] The sentence meted out depends on the philosophical principle used by the court and what the legal system regards as the purpose of punishment. The most common purposes of sentencing are: Retribution Deterrence Denunciation Incapacitation Rehabilitation Reparation Theory Aim of theory Suitable punishment Retribution Punishment imposed for no reason other than an offense being committed, on the basis that if proportionate, punishment is morally acceptable as a response that satisfies the aggrieved party, their intimates and society. Tariff sentences Sentence must be proportionate to the crime Deterrence To the individual - the individual is deterred through fear of further punishment. To the general public - potential offenders warned as to likely punishment. Prison sentence Heavy fine Long sentence as an example to others Denunciation Society expressing its disapproval reinforcing moral boundaries Reflects blameworthiness of offense Incapacitation — protection of the public Offender is made incapable of committing further crime to protect society at large from crime Long prison sentence Electronic tagging Banning orders Rehabilitation To reform the offender's behavior Individualized sentences Community service orders Reparation Repayment to victim(s) or to community Compensation Unpaid work Reparation schemes In England and Wales, section 142 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 has specified that in cases involving those over 18, courts should have regard to "punishment of the offenders" (i.e. retribution), deterrence, reform and rehabilitation, protection of the public, and reparation "to persons affected by their offences".[2] Process[edit] Usually, the sentence comes after a process in which the deciding organ is put in condition to evaluate whether the analysed conduct complies or not with the legal systems, and eventually which aspects of the conduct might regard which laws. Depending on respective systems, the phases that precede the sentence may vary relevantly and the sentence can be resisted (by both parties) up to a given degree of appeal. The sentence issued by the appellate court of highest admitted degree immediately becomes the definitive sentence, as well as the sentence issued in minor degrees that is not resisted by the condemned or by the accusator (or is not resisted within a given time). The sentence usually has to be rendered of public domain (publicatio), and in most systems, it has to be accompanied by the reasons for its content (a sort of story of the juridical reflections and evaluations that the judging organ used to produce it). A sentence (even a definitive one) can be annulled in some given cases, which many systems usually pre-determine. The most frequent case is related to irregularities found ex-post in the procedure. The most éclatant is perhaps in penal cases, when a relevant (often discharging) proof is discovered after the definitive sentence. In most systems, the definitive sentence is unique, in the precise sense that no one can be judged more than once for the same action (apart, obviously, from appeal resistance). Sentences are in many systems a source of law, as an authoritative interpretation of the law in front of concrete cases, thus quite as an extension of the ordinary formal documental system. The sentence is typically determined by a judge and/or jury and issued in the name of (or on the behalf of) the superior authority of the state. See also[edit] Criminal costs Criminal sentencing in Canada Criminal sentencing in the United States English criminal law Incapacitation (penology) Sentencing disparity Sentencing in England and Wales Judgment (law) Sentencing guidelines References[edit] ^ William J. Stuntz (Jun 2004), Plea Bargaining and Criminal Law's Disappearing Shadow, 117 (8), Harvard Law Review, pp. 2548–2569 ^ UK Parliament. Criminal Justice Act as amended (see also enacted form), from legislation.gov.uk. External links[edit] Sentencing (Directgov, England and Wales) Authority control GND: 4062174-1 NARA: 10657326 NDL: 01182299 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sentence_(law)&oldid=870028290" Categories: Sentencing (law) Hidden categories: Articles with limited geographic scope from August 2018 United Kingdom-centric Articles needing additional references from July 2007 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with NARA identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Башҡортса Català Euskara Frysk Galego 한국어 Italiano עברית ქართული Қазақша Lietuvių Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Simple English Slovenčina Suomi Svenska Тоҷикӣ Türkçe Українська اردو ייִדיש 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 21 November 2018, at 22:35 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
