Statement (logic) - Wikipedia Statement (logic) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search In logic, the term statement is variously understood to mean either: (a) a meaningful declarative sentence that is true or false, or (b) the assertion that is made by a true or false declarative sentence. In the latter case, a statement is distinct from a sentence in that a sentence is only one formulation of a statement, whereas there may be many other formulations expressing the same statement. Contents 1 Overview 2 As an abstract entity 3 See also 4 Notes 5 References Overview[edit] Philosopher of language, Peter Strawson advocated the use of the term "statement" in sense (b) in preference to proposition. Strawson used the term "Statement" to make the point that two declarative sentences can make the same statement if they say the same thing in different ways. Thus in the usage advocated by Strawson, "All men are mortal." and "Every man is mortal." are two different sentences that make the same statement. In either case a statement is viewed as a truth bearer. Examples of sentences that are (or make) statements: "Socrates is a man." "A triangle has three sides." "Madrid is the capital of Spain." Examples of sentences that are not (or do not make) statements: "Who are you?" "Run!" "Greenness perambulates." "I had one grunch but the eggplant over there." "The King of France is wise." "Broccoli tastes good." "Pegasus exists." The first two examples are not declarative sentences and therefore are not (or do not make) statements. The third and fourth are declarative sentences but, lacking meaning, are neither true nor false and therefore are not (or do not make) statements. The fifth and sixth examples are meaningful declarative sentences, but are not statements but rather matters of opinion or taste. Whether or not the sentence "Pegasus exists." is a statement is a subject of debate among philosophers. Bertrand Russell held that it is a (false) statement. Strawson held it is not a statement at all. As an abstract entity[edit] In some treatments "statement" is introduced in order to distinguish a sentence from its informational content. A statement is regarded as the information content of an information-bearing sentence. Thus, a sentence is related to the statement it bears like a numeral to the number it refers to. Statements are abstract logical entities, while sentences are grammatical entities.[1][2] See also[edit] Claim (logic) Sentence (mathematical logic) Belief Concept Truthbearer - Statements Notes[edit] ^ Rouse ^ Ruzsa 2000, p. 16 References[edit] A. G. Hamilton, Logic for Mathematicians, Cambridge University Press, 1980, ISBN 0-521-29291-3. Rouse, David L., "Sentences, Statements and Arguments", A Practical Introduction to Formal Logic. (PDF) Ruzsa, Imre (2000), Bevezetés a modern logikába, Osiris tankönyvek, Budapest: Osiris, ISBN 963-379-978-3 Xenakis, Jason (1956). "Sentence and Statement: Prof. Quine on Mr. Strawson". Analysis. 16 (4): 91–4. doi:10.2307/3326478. ISSN 1467-8284. JSTOR 3326478 – via JSTOR. (Registration required (help)). Peter Millican, "Statements and Modality: Strawson, Quine and Wolfram", http://philpapers.org/rec/MILSAM-2/ P. F. Strawson, "On Referring" in Mind, Vol 59 No 235 (Jul 1950) P. F. Strawson (http://www.sol.lu.se/common/courses/LINC04/VT2010/Strawson1950.pdf/) v t e Philosophy of language Index of language articles Philosophers Plato (Cratylus) Gorgias Confucius Xunzi Aristotle Stoics Pyrrhonists Scholasticism Ibn Rushd Ibn Khaldun Thomas Hobbes Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Johann Herder Ludwig Noiré Wilhelm von Humboldt Fritz Mauthner Paul Ricœur Ferdinand de Saussure Gottlob Frege Franz Boas Paul Tillich Edward Sapir Leonard Bloomfield Zhuangzi Henri Bergson Lev Vygotsky Ludwig Wittgenstein Philosophical Investigations Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus Bertrand Russell Rudolf Carnap Jacques Derrida Of Grammatology Limited Inc Benjamin Lee Whorf Gustav Bergmann J. L. Austin Noam Chomsky Hans-Georg Gadamer Saul Kripke A. J. Ayer G. E. M. Anscombe Jaakko Hintikka Michael Dummett Donald Davidson Roger Gibson Paul Grice Gilbert Ryle P. F. Strawson Willard Van Orman Quine Hilary Putnam David Lewis John Searle Joxe Azurmendi Scott Soames Stephen Yablo John Hawthorne Stephen Neale Paul Watzlawick Theories Causal theory of reference Contrast theory of meaning Contrastivism Conventionalism Cratylism Deconstruction Descriptivist theory of names Direct reference theory Dramatism Expressivism Linguistic determinism Logical atomism Logical positivism Mediated reference theory Nominalism Non-cognitivism Phallogocentrism Quietism Relevance theory Semantic externalism Semantic holism Structuralism Supposition theory Symbiosism Theological noncognitivism Theory of descriptions Verification theory Concepts Ambiguity Linguistic relativity Meaning Language Truth-bearer Proposition Use–mention distinction Concept Categories Set Class Intension Logical form Metalanguage Mental representation Principle of compositionality Property Sign Sense and reference Speech act Symbol Entity Sentence Statement more... Related articles Analytic philosophy Philosophy of information Philosophical logic Linguistics Pragmatics Rhetoric Semantics Formal semantics Semiotics Category Task Force Discussion v t e Logic Outline History Fields Argumentation theory Axiology Critical thinking Logic in computer science Mathematical logic Metalogic Metamathematics Non-classical logic Philosophical logic Philosophy of logic Set theory Foundations Abduction Analytic and synthetic propositions Antinomy A priori and a posteriori Deduction Definition Description Induction Inference Logical form Logical consequence Logical truth Name Necessity and sufficiency Meaning Paradox Possible world Presupposition Probability Reason Reference Semantics Statement Strict implication Substitution Syntax Truth Validity Lists topics Mathematical logic Boolean algebra Set theory other Logicians Rules of inference Paradoxes Fallacies Logic symbols Portal Category WikiProject (talk) changes Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Statement_(logic)&oldid=839671309" Categories: Concepts in logic Statements Hidden categories: Pages with login required references or sources Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages Català Español हिन्दी עברית Nederlands Português Svenska తెలుగు Türkçe Українська 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 4 May 2018, at 22:49 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
