Sticky position in Safari with Angular Components - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Log In Sign Up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Jobs Teams+Slack Q&A for work Learn More Sticky position in Safari with Angular Components Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite So, position: sticky is awesome, right? And so is Angular, right? Using both in conjunction with Firefox and Chrome work great. The problem starts with Safari. If you build an Angular component that has a position: sticky div within it as the first element in the template, Safari doesn't know how to handle it. Example: AppComponent: @Component({
  template: '<sticky-component></sticky-component>'
})
export class AppComponent {}
 StickyComponent: @Component({
  selector: 'sticky-component',
  template: '<div class="sticky">Should be sticky</div>',
  styles: [
    `
      sticky {
        position: sticky;
        top: 0;
      }
    `
  ]
})
export class StickyComponent {}
 This will generate a DOM like: ...
<sticky-component>
  <div class="sticky"></div>
</sticky-component>
...
 If you physically write out the HTML without the <sticky-component> it works great in Safari. But since the parent of the sticky element is the host element, this fails. Trying to add the sticky CSS to the host element doesn't seem like it works either. Has anyone run into this issue before or has any solution? I know I can implement this sticky functionality using event listeners within Angular, but position: sticky is sooo much easier. StackBlitz example: https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-3uxdeb angular safari sticky share|improve this question edited 1 min ago asked 44 mins ago SpellChucker 137215 can you reproduce this in a stackblitz? – Lucho 41 mins ago Updated with StackBlitz. – SpellChucker 48 secs ago add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 0 down vote This is more of a workaround which might not suit your needs but I guess it deserves an answer since it does solve the problem (not necessarily in the way you'd like it). If the issue with Safari is a custom element (with a dash) used in the DOM, you can get rid of that by specifying a different selector. Instead of selector: 'sticky-component',
 you could have selector: 'div[sticky-component]',
 and then use the component by adding an attribute. <div sticky-component></div>
 Although certainly not ideal in this use-case, this is a valid way to define components. In fact, it's often done with custom buttons -- for example, Material itself uses this pattern: <button mat-button>. share|improve this answer answered 24 mins ago Lazar Ljubenović 8,75032451 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged angular safari sticky or ask your own question. asked today viewed 12 times active today Related 68Angular 2.0 binding value to style 344How can I select an element in a component template? 141Angular 2: How to style host element of the component? 3angular 2 app component not loading 2Angular - component selector using ID 4Using Angular 2 components throughout a non-Angular app 1Angular 4 wrapping components with _ngcontent-cx divs 0angular default class for component 0UIKit v3 sticky element inside modal? 2Safari position:sticky not working in an overflow:auto element Hot Network Questions What does the "DO NOT USE FOR NAVIGATION" indication mean? Does the 2-sample KS test work? If so, why is it so unintuitive? How was piracy prevented when the first CD-ROM games were introduced? Why is Germany not in the New Hanseatic League? What does the phrase "cross your eyes" mean in this context? What would be used for "coordinates" on a large asteroid? Boss wants to use my lunchtime for work What is the origin of the phrase ‘orc and pie’? Is there a surface on which a hexagon can have all right angles? Alarms on Doors that have Access to a Pool I lost my closet key, how to open it? Any techniques to remove rust from inside fuel tank without removal '70s movie, with the tagline "They crushed his face... they changed his voice... but they couldn't keep him from the woman he loved." Does a rock use up energy to maintain its shape? Why does an overridden get-only property stay null when set in base class constructor? Is legislation NP-complete? Do historians agree that most wars are caused by religion? Why is my bag never one of the first on the carousel? Stabilizer of Sp(n) and U(n) in GL(n) Is there a term for "the user can't use anything wrong" design? Why Turner syndrome is a problem when one of the X chromosomes has to be non functional anyway? Planetary cave: Gravity inside a non-concentric shell In which direction is the sun travelling in? Who was Credence travelling with on the boat? more hot questions question feed Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Engagement Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.11.30.32292 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled
