Student Event Planning | Office of Student Experience Skip to main content A A University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search CURRENT STUDENTS · ALUMNI + DONORS · FACULTY + STAFF · ASK.UWINDSOR Toggle navigation MENU FUTURE STUDENTS About Overview Senior Administration Virtual Tour Visitor Information Campus Maps Parking Place of Promise VIEW Magazine Academics Programs Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs International Programs Executive + Professional Programs Faculties Arts, Humanities + Social Sciences Law Education Nursing Engineering Business Graduate Studies Human Kinetics Science Academic Support Office of the Registrar Student Awards Office of the Provost Research Overview Vice-President, Research & Innovation Research & Innovation Services Research Appointments Research Ethics Research Safety Animal Care Research Finance Leddy Library UWill Discover! EPICentre Student Life Overview Athletics + Recreation Services Lancers Varsity Sports University Players SoCA Concerts & Events Student Accessibility Services Events Calendar Residence Food Services Student Support FUTURE STUDENTS University of Windsor SearchSEARCH University of Windsor Search Enter the terms you wish to search for. Search About Academics Research Student Life FUTURE STUDENTS CURRENT STUDENTS ALUMNI + DONORS FACULTY + STAFF ASK.UWINDSOR Office of Student Experience Office of Student Experience In this section Home Our Priorities Message from Ryan Student Services UWin Proud Wellness at UWindsor Students of Concern Non-Academic Misconduct Student Event Planning Annual Reports Student Life Enhancement Fund Contact Us Home Our Priorities Message from Ryan Student Services UWin Proud Wellness at UWindsor Students of Concern Non-Academic Misconduct Student Event Planning Annual Reports Student Life Enhancement Fund Contact Us UWindsor Home Office of Student Experience Student Event Planning Student Event Planning The University of Windsor recognizes that student events and activities are an essential component of campus life. The information provided here is intended to help student groups plan and execute fun, entertaining and well-attended events while minimizing the various risks associated with hosting an event. The following University of Windsor policies are applicable across campus in addition to those set by University divisions, departments, and student governments. Students and student groups are encouraged to review the following documents to ensure that they are informed about all applicable requirements. Catering Services Policy (link to Food Services website) – For guidelines and procedures regarding the planning and coordination of all student events held on campus contact Catering Services at ext. 3276 or 3277 or cateringservices@uwindsor.ca. Campus Alcohol Policy (PDF format) – Rules and regulations regarding the use of alcohol during events on and off campus. Event Planning Guide for Students (PDF format) – A planning guide offering general best practices for event planning. Event Planning Protocol for Students (PDF format) -- A guide to event approval process. Human Rights Policy (link to OHREA website) – Policy detailing the protection and rights of faculty, staff and students within the University of Windsor community. Planning Accessible Events Checklist (link to OHREA website) -- Quick reference tool providing information on how to make your meeting/event inclusive and accessible for everyone attending. File Attachments: Attachment event_planning_guide_for_students_july_2015.pdf event_planning_protocol_for_students_july_2015.pdf share tweet save +1 share tweet save +1 Contact Us University Directory Accessibility News Services for Media UWindsor mobile apps Terms & Conditions Emergency Services for Students Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Follow us on Flickr Follow us on Youtube Follow us on Instagram
