Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) 11/30/2018 Shen Xiang Any display of disagreement with the Communist Party in China is quashed, even when it concerns the health and wellbeing of an entire town. Nearly 2,000 police officers were sent in to deal with protesting residents in Bahe earlier this month. On November 9, residents of Bahe town in the central province of Hubei gathered near a highway to protest the construction of a garbage incineration power plant. The plant is to be used for province-wide operations, and given its scale, it would lead to significant water and air pollution in the town. Not only would that directly endanger the health of local people but also pollute about 165,000 acres of their farmland. However, the authorities of Huanggang city’s Xishui county, where the town is located, refused to listen to the residents or negotiate a solution. Instead, they dispatched nearly 2,000 police officers to manage the protestors. Government officials threaten the villagers to disperse: According to several eyewitness accounts, the officers blocked the protesting people with their shields. Anyone who came near them was beaten up, even the elderly, children, and a pregnant woman. Some protestors attempted arguing with police officers, saying that it is not illegal for people to defend their rights, but were immediately assaulted and pinned to the ground. A pregnant woman is beaten up by police officers: The chaotic confrontation between the police and protestors went on for a while, and many were left injured. Some women and children got down on their knees pleading the authorities to stop the assault and listen to their grievances. Women and children get down on their knees and plead the authorities: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span> Those who tried to film the scenes on their cell phones had their devices snatched and were wrestled to the ground, as the authorities did not want their brutality to be exposed. To prevent the dissemination of information, they also ordered to block the mobile reception signal right after the attack on peaceful demonstrated started. Yet, some residents managed to record videos and upload them online. Police officers violently assault and arrest Bahe residence trying to uphold their rights: According to the town residents, officers arrested more than a dozen people that day. They are also on the lookout for those who uploaded the videos and will likely arrest them when they are found. A Bahe resident warned the authorities that the suppression of people would produce the opposite of the intended results. “Don’t forcibly do things that people don’t want. By doing this, you’re inflaming public sentiment.” Reported by Shen Xiang Tagged With: Human Rights, Police Brutality Related articles Villagers Arrested for Protecting Their Livelihood (VIDEOS) Believer Forced to Pay Exorbitant Bail Family of Seven Forced to Flee After Seeking Justice (Videos) How Government Made Scapegoats Out of Five Chinese Youths Read more Villagers Fight for Their Land Seized Seven Years Ago (Videos) Police officers in Henan responded to the villager’s protests against the illega... Police Beat Farmers Defending Their Rights (Videos) The authorities of Putian city in Fujian Province ordered police officers to tak... “Legal Education Centers” to Reform Believers In several parts of Shaanxi Province, believers of The Church of Almighty God ha... Judgement Day for China in Geneva The Universal Periodic Review of the state of human rights in China at the Uni... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
