Syrian refugee bullying: More than $150,000 raised after teen choked in Huddersfield - The Washington Post Sections Home Democracy Dies in Darkness Try 1 month for $1 Username Sign In Account and Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account and Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Accessibility for screenreader World ‘They think I’m different:’ Horrific video shows Syrian boy being choked on a school field By Avi Selk Avi Selk Reporter Email Bio Follow November 29 at 8:20 AM From @haraaambanter - I am absolutely disgusted and mortified by the level of hate and ignorance shown by the cowards in this video. It is of a Syrian refugee who has been bullied constantly in Almondbury High School where apparently...this hasn't been taken seriously. We need to make some noise about this! *No one* should be treated like this...let alone someone who has lived through the trauma of war and displacement! Please share so we can get this issue taken seriously by the school. This is a letter from a solicitor refugee currently living in Huddersfield, he and his family came to the UK two years ago through a United Nations program assisting families affected by the ongoing war in Syria Jamals early years were defined by fear, flight, instability and struggle. Jamal's family originated from the city of Homs, in 2010 when Jamal was barely eight years old, a number of his family members were abducted by the Assad regime, they were horrifically tortured and one of their number murdered Jamal's family fearing for their lives fled to the nearest safe haven, Lebanon, as refugees. In 2016 the UN managed to secure the resettlement of Jamal's family to the UK, the family were installed in Huddersfield where Jamal and his sister (xxxx) attended xxxxxxx xxxxx School . Having escaped torture at the hands of the Assad regime, survived refugee conditions in a foreign land and finally been promised peaceful sanctuary in the UK the family began to put together the pieces of their shattered lives and rebuild a new one in what they hoped was their final home. Within a month of entering the UK education system, Jamal and his sister, the only Syrian children in their respective classes, were targeted and set upon by a number of the other students with a campaign of racist bullying. Jamal had been attacked verbally and physically numerous times both within the school as well as outside its precincts. The bullying and assaults were all reported to school staff who despite taking note of the incidents have failed to protect these children from ongoing harm. . #ayeshazr #syrianrefugee #syrian #refugee #bullying Posted by ନା ନା ନା ନା on Tuesday, November 27, 2018 On a school field in northern England last month, a group of boys closed in fast upon their target. “Hey, Jamal, come here!” a boy in a blue sweater yelled, as others strode beside him, one of them holding a phone aloft to record the pursuit. A few yards ahead, Jamal kept walking, backpack strapped across his T-shirt and a cast around his arm. He had been injured a few days prior in another incident at Almondbury Community School, according to police. He and his sister had been repeatedly bullied since fleeing the Syrian civil war and moving to West Yorkshire two years earlier, according to British news outlets. Jamal was 15 — a year younger than the boy in the sweater, who walked fast to close the distance and swung a water bottle in his hand. “What’re you saying now then?” he called out to Jamal. Jamal was not saying anything, but he stopped and turned. “Huh?” Jamal said. The videographer adjusted his cellphone to get Jamal in the frame with his antagonist. A crowd of students formed a loose semicircle around them, most dressed in the Almondbury jacket uniform. “What are you saying now then?” the boy in the sweater repeated, and this time he butted Jamal in the head as he said it. “What are you saying now then! What are you saying now then!” The queries came so fast they sounded like a single word. “Nothing,” Jamal replied. [An isolated tribe killed a missionary — and gave an anti-immigration politician an idea] The boy in the sweater grabbed Jamal’s neck, twisted him around and pushed him to the grass. “What are you saying now then? Eh! Eh! Eh?” he screamed. But if there was an answer to the question, Jamal could no longer give it. The boy in the sweater had a hand around his throat and was pouring water from the bottle into his mouth. “I’ll drown ya, you little bastard, I’ll drown you!” he shouted as Jamal coughed and sputtered. He broke free and rolled away a second later. In the final scene of the video, whose publication on social media this week could very well change both boys' lives, Jamal stands up. Students around him jeer and whoop and swish their ties, but he does not react. He simply rights himself and walks away, across the field and out of the frame — into a form of celebrity he never asked for. “When I saw everyone looking at this video, I felt ashamed of myself and why it happened,” Jamal told ITV on Wednesday, after footage of the Oct. 25 incident made its way onto Twitter and Facebook, where it was viewed and shared hundreds of thousands of times. “I woke up and just started crying. They think I’m different. Different from them.” But where Jamal felt shame, others saw quiet dignity in his suffering and were inspired to do something about it. Facing global outrage over the attack, West Yorkshire Police announced Tuesday that they were investigating reports of “racially aggravated assault.” Police said Wednesday they had charged Jamal’s attacker with assault. “To the Syrian refugee — I say sorry. It’s not the welcoming, friendly Britain we are supposed to be,” Tobias Ellwood, a member of Parliament, wrote on Twitter, one of several politicians and celebrities who helped turn the 40-second video into a symbol of anti-immigrant hatred. A local resident named Mohammed Tahir got in touch with Jamal’s family and started a GoFundMe campaign for Jamal and his family and guardians on Tuesday. Jamal “has been subject to months of bullying along with his little sister. To the point where his little sister has broken the lenses in her glasses and attempted to cut her own wrists in school toilets,” Tahir wrote on the fundraising page, which a GoFundMe spokesman told The Washington Post is authentic. “Having left a war torn country, the least they deserve is to live in peace without being harassed." The fundraiser raised more than $150,000 on its first day, and the amount continues to climb. But there are things that money can’t fix. Jamal’s hometown is Homs, ITV reported, which has been besieged and devastated for years in the Syrian war. He spent nearly half his life as a refugee in Lebanon before being resettled by the British government in the town of Huddersfield in 2016. Now, Jamal told ITV, his family may need to flee again. The bullying at Almondbury Community School has only increased since footage of the October attack went viral, he said, and has escalated into threats at his home. After airing the interview, ITV played another video, recorded at the school on Tuesday and also being investigated by police. It showed a girl in a pink hijab being shoved between two students, then thrown onto the same field that Jamal had escaped a month earlier. The girl was Jamal’s little sister, the station reported. Read more: ‘I wanted to stop her crying’: The image of a migrant child that broke a photographer’s heart ‘I felt terrible for them’: Wildfire-affected students and staff each handed $1,000 from businessman A homeless veteran’s heartwarming story led to a $400,000 GoFundMe. Prosecutors say it was a lie. Help us tell the story. Your subscription supports foreign correspondents based in 17 countries. Try 1 month for $1
