The Police Seize a Three-Self Church in Changyuan, Henan Province, and Arrest Pastors | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / The Police Seize a Three-Self Church in Changyuan, Henan Province, and Arrest Pastors The Police Seize a Three-Self Church in Changyuan, Henan Province, and Arrest Pastors 05/07/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Direct Reports from China Date: May 5, 2018 On April 16, 2018, the police seized a Three-Self church in Huichi Village, Wuqiu Township, Changyuan County in Henan Province’s Xinxiang City, and arrested its two pastors. The church belongs to the Three-Self Patriotic Movement, the Protestant body controlled by the regime in China. At 8 a.m., one police car, three SWAT cars, and a mobile patrol car parked outside the gate of the church, and about 20 police officers from the county’s national security bureau, the criminal police brigade, the SWAT team, and Wuqiu Township Police Station rushed into the church yelling at the believers: “What are you doing?” One female believer responded that they were studying. Later, the police confiscated the books brought by the pastors and scolded a believer who held a two-year-old in her arms: “Don’t you know minors are not allowed to enter the church? You have violated the state policy!” Soon, the police began to vandalize the church: they smashed chairs, tables, and doors, tore down electric fans and TVs and took away washing machines. At the same time, they shut the gate of the church and arranged some policemen to guard it. Once people entered, they were not allowed to leave until the police permitted them to do so. After the police were done destroying the church, they arrested two pastors and several staff members and threatened the believers that their subsistence allowance would be stopped if they continued to believe in God. Before they left, the police sealed off the church to prevent anyone from entering. At the church gate, some believers squatted on the ground, and some stood still, their faces full of sadness. Images and video: Image 01/02 The Church Was Shut Down and Sealed off by the Police https://bitterwinter.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/03-Video-Pastors-and-Staff-Members-of-the-Church-Were-Taken-Away-by-the-Police-Cars）.mp4 Video: Pastors and Staff Members of the Church Were Taken Away by the Police Cars Tagged With: Three-Self Patriotic Movement Related articles Churches Converted into Entertainment Venues Christians in Guizhou Urged to Register at the Official Church Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches No Church Can Be Taller Than Government Buildings in China Read more Churches Converted into Entertainment Venues Government-controlled Three-Self Patriotic Movement churches are being seized ... No Church Can Be Taller Than Government Buildings in China The local government forcibly destroyed a Three-Self church in a village of Hena... Chinese Government Continues Persecution of Protestant Churches Source: Radio Free Asia Date: May 22, 2018 Radio Free Asia reports about the... Christians in Guizhou Urged to Register at the Official Church Source: ChinaAid Date: May 13, 2018 ChinaAid reports on yet another attempt ... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
