Trip Medical Database Home About How To Use Contact us Blog Tour Latest & greatest Evidence Maps (NEW!) Sign Up or use your Facebook Twitter Google+ account Log In Liberating the literature Search Pico Advanced Recent Language Settings My query is: English Français Deutsch Čeština Español Magyar Svenska ALL of these words: Title only Anywhere in the document ProximityUp to 10 words apartUp to 5 words apartUp to 3 words apartUp to 2 words apart ANY of these words: Title only Anywhere in the document This EXACT phrase: Title only Anywhere in the document EXCLUDING words: Title only Anywhere in the document Timeframe: to: Combine searches by placing the search numbers in the top search box and pressing the search button. An example search might look like (#1 or #2) and (#3 or #4) Loading history... Population: Intervention: Comparison: Outcome: Population: Intervention: Trusted Answers Trip medical database, a smart, fast tool to find high quality clinical research evidence. Searched over 125,000,000 times Over 70% of clinical questions answered Unrivalled content Millions of articles items indexed & uniquely ranked Twenty years of learning & fine tuning About Trip Log in now Upgrade to PRO Trip Pro is the most advanced version of Trip it has extra content and functionality, including: 100,000+ extra systematic reviews Medical images and videos Links to millions of full-text articles Export facility to reference management software Advanced search Much more (click here to see the full list) Available as both personal ($55 US Dollars per year) and institutional subscriptions. Read our blog Trip Rapid Review System – structure Trip mobile app. It’s getting there! What we’re up to Using Trip to support research prioritisation Trip and the Evidence Ecosystem Use Trip to get results Trip is designed to be as easy to use as Google. But underneath this simplicity is some really powerful technology. See our ‘How to use Trip‘ guides to get the most out of Trip. Sign up now Trip is free to use but if you register and sign-in you get many benefits. So register or sign-in now. Get in touch We love hearing from our users. We also like hearing from potential partners. So if you have any comments, questions, ideas for joint work or research send an email to jon.brassey@tripdatabase.com Home About How To Use Contact us Blog Get Trip Pro Follow us: Terms of use Privacy Acceptable usage Add Trip to your site Leaflets Rapid Review CureFacts © 2018 Trip Database Ltd. company number 04316414. Trip is proud to be made in the UK.
