typescript - Do not render Angular container component without nesting - Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Log In Sign Up current community Stack Overflow help chat Meta Stack Overflow your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Home Public Stack Overflow Tags Users Jobs Teams+Slack Q&A for work Learn More Do not render Angular container component without nesting Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite I am trying to create a component that reuses ion-header. With the way ion-header works, it needs to be a root component of the page (contained by nothing except body). I have looked into a couple of ways to do this: Angular 2 - ngfor without wrapping in a container Angular2 : render a component without its wrapping tag I have created a component with an attribute selector: @Component({
  selector: '[head]',
  template: `<ion-header>... {{head}} ...</ion-header>`,
})
export class HelloComponent  {
  @Input() head: string;
}
 However, if I try to use <ng-container head="The Title"></ng-container> I get an error: DOMException: Failed to execute 'appendChild' on 'Node': This node type does not support this method. from the Angular renderer itself. I can update the template to include the content of ion-header itself and instead have <ion-header head="The Title"></ion-header>, but I would like to be able to reuse the component as a whole rather than having to specify the element and directive. This also prevents me from being able to include other attributes with ion-header if it's needed. Example: https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-fgfudn Is there any way to render a component's template contents at the root level? angular typescript ionic-framework share|improve this question asked Jul 27 at 14:35 Explosion Pills 148k38221304 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 0 down vote Well, there is one convoluted way to do that, your component should have ng-template with ion-header. Then you create embedded view manually using component factory/resolver. This way you can render ng-template with ion-header right after your component tag (which can have display: none for example) on the same level. share|improve this answer answered Jul 27 at 16:33 kemsky 10.4k11938 Can you provide some code as an example of how to do this? – Explosion Pills Jul 27 at 17:53 This is example with component, but templates are similar stackblitz.com/edit/angular-xkl1wh as you can see component is created below my-app – kemsky Jul 27 at 18:35 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged angular typescript ionic-framework or ask your own question. asked 4 months ago viewed 62 times active 4 months ago Linked 32 Angular 2 - ngfor without wrapping in a container 38 Angular2 : render a component without its wrapping tag Related 6Duplicate “id” attribute in component 0Angular 2 export component into template 2Angular2 Component which renders 2 tr elements in a loop 1Angular 4 wrapping components with _ngcontent-cx divs 0Is there any way to only render the template/content of my Angular component? 3How to keep previous content of my main component preserved in Angular 2? 20Dynamically ADDING and REMOVING Components in Angular 1Remove container class from rendered component which gets rendered through router-outlet in angular 4Using component both as custom element and as angular component Hot Network Questions 2010 Ford Fusion hybrid-- terrible gas mileage Why do immortals not use any neck armour in Highlander (1986)? What would be used for "coordinates" on a large asteroid? Any techniques to remove rust from inside fuel tank without removal New PowerShell as a user with administrator rights Find description in man pages for environment variables shown with env command Is legislation NP-complete? Reverse Engineering Movable Labels in ArcMap? I lost my closet key, how to open it? spanning tree RootGuard question on vPC switches Alarms on Doors that have Access to a Pool Can a time element be part of the description in Animal Messenger? Happy belated birthday in Italian What are the main reasons for why negotiating a proper Brexit deal has been so hard? Can multiple Bags of Holding banish Tiamat? Why can't we see images reflected on a piece of paper? What issues could arise with this Advantage/Disadvantage Variant? Why did Aegon I Targaryen join the alliance against Volantis? How to deal with anxiety and depression after being kicked out of PhD program? Would one atom of antimatter be lethal if annihilated inside the brain? Brushing clean a Mars lander's solar panels Does the 2-sample KS test work? If so, why is it so unintuitive? Cost optimization - PCB Area vs. Double-sided load What does the "DO NOT USE FOR NAVIGATION" indication mean? more hot questions question feed lang-js Stack Overflow Questions Jobs Developer Jobs Directory Salary Calculator Help Mobile Products Teams Talent Engagement Enterprise Company About Press Work Here Legal Privacy Policy Contact Us Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.11.30.32292 Stack Overflow works best with JavaScript enabled
