Uighur asylum seeker mistakenly deported from Germany has 'disappeared', says lawyer | CBC Radio Skip to Main Content CBCMenu Search Quick Links News Sports Radio Listen Live TV Watch CBC.ca HOME Discover CBC Comedy Arts Music Books Docs Life Parents Kids Kids News Indspire Awards Archives MyCBC All Locals British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Ottawa Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North My Local Settings Ottawa Changequickly access local content from your selected region Select a new default local region: British Columbia Calgary Edmonton Saskatchewan Saskatoon Manitoba Thunder Bay Sudbury Windsor London Kitchener-Waterloo Hamilton Toronto Montreal New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Nova Scotia Newfoundland & Labrador North News Top Stories Local The National Opinion World Canada Politics Indigenous Business Health Entertainment Tech & Science CBC News Investigates Go Public Shows About CBC News Sports Top Stories Scores NHL Olympic Sports Video Podcasts Player's Own Voice All Sports Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE TV Shows Schedule Watch More Shop Sitemap Help Contact Contests CBC Radio Top Stories All Shows Podcasts Schedules LISTEN LIVE As It Happens CBC RadioUighur asylum seeker mistakenly deported from Germany has 'disappeared', says lawyer Uighur asylum seeker mistakenly deported from Germany has 'disappeared', says lawyer A man from a persecuted minority group seeking asylum in Germany was unexpectedly deported to China in early April — and no one has heard from him since. Man from persecuted minority was to meet with immigration officials before being sent to China in April CBC Radio · August 8 Uighurs and their supporters rally across the street from United Nations headquarters in New York on March 15, 2018. (Seth Wenig/Associated Press) comments Listen6:18 A man seeking asylum in Germany was unexpectedly deported to China four months ago and no one has heard from him since. The unnamed 22-year-old, who is part of the predominantly Muslim Uighur minority population in China, was scheduled for an interview in early April with Germany's immigration office, but bureaucrats didn't receive the paperwork. Authorities for the state of Bavaria told German broadcaster Bayerischer Rundfunk on Monday that the deportation was a mistake, reports Deutsche Welle. 'Thank the Party!': China tries to brainwash Muslims in camps Analysis'Germany's Texas' claims to be easygoing, but its politics pose a serious challenge for Merkel Martine Synnott, an immigration lawyer whose office represents the man, told As It Happens guest host Matt Galloway that communication breakdowns are frequent. The man was claiming asylum in Germany after becoming politically active against the Chinese government. It was his second time applying for asylum in the European country. "They [deportation authorities] just took him, put him in the plane, and the only information we got was, 'Oh sorry, it's too late. He can't go to the interview anymore because we deported him,'" Synnott said. 'He disappeared completely' Uighurs are a minority ethnic group in China. Media reports suggest the government has interned tens to hundreds of thousands of Uighurs in "re-education camps." The camps are intended, in part, to force the Muslim minority to disavow Islamic beliefs. "Members who are really politically active are always in danger that they are put in prison," she said. However, she said she has no information that suggests the Uighur man was interned. A police officer guards a security post leading into a centre locals say is used for political indoctrination in China's Xinjiang region. Chinese authorities in the heavily Muslim region of Xinjiang have ensnared tens, possibly hundreds of thousands, of Muslim Chinese in mass internment camps. (Ng Han Guan/Associated Press) It's unusual to completely lose communication with a deported asylum seeker, the lawyer said. Normally, she said she'll receive updates from social media or through friends. "He had acquaintances here, he had friends here, but nobody has any information about him," she said. "He disappeared completely." Government backlog Synnott blames Germany's overburdened asylum and migration department for the error. More than half of the 950,000 asylum seekers in Europe are based in Germany, according to the EU's migration office. "We had [over] the last two, three years … so many refugees that it's too complicated even for the authorities now to give proper information to the others," she said. Uighur security personnel patrol near the Id Kah Mosque in Kashgar in western China's Xinjiang region in this Nov. 4, 2017, photo. (Ng Han Guan/Associated Press) Accidental deportations are "more often these days," Synnott said. But the lawyer said she knows of only one case where a mistakenly deported person was put on a return flight to Germany. Chinese authorities haven't offered Synnott or her colleague Leo Borgmann any information on the man's whereabouts, she said. Borgmann, who oversees the Uighur man's case, has now written to the German government and is appealing to the German Embassy in China to find him. "That's the only thing we can do," Synnott said. "How can we search for him? China is pretty big isn't it?" Written by Jason Vermes. Interview produced by Imogen Birchard. More from this episode Engineer wants to turn Everest climbers' poo into fuel Toronto engineer describes being trapped in a flooded elevator with water up to his chin Saudi Arabia 'justified' in cutting ties with Canada, says head of pro-Saudi group Uighur asylum seeker mistakenly deported from Germany has 'disappeared', says lawyer August 8, 2018 episode transcript FULL EPISODE: As It Happens: Wednesday Edition Related Stories 'Thank the Party!': China tries to brainwash Muslims in camps Popular Now Find more popular stories Comments To encourage thoughtful and respectful conversations, first and last names will appear with each submission to CBC/Radio-Canada's online communities (except in children and youth-oriented communities). Pseudonyms will no longer be permitted. By submitting a comment, you accept that CBC has the right to reproduce and publish that comment in whole or in part, in any manner CBC chooses. Please note that CBC does not endorse the opinions expressed in comments. Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time. Discover more from CBCMore Stories from us Footer Links Connect with CBC Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Mobile RSS Podcasts Newsletters Contact CBC Audience Relations, CBC P.O. Box 500 Station A Toronto, ON Canada, M5W 1E6 Toll-free (Canada only): 1-866-306-4636 TTY/Teletype writer: 1-866-220-6045 FAQ Help Centre Contact Us Services & Info Corporate Info Ombudsman Public Appearances Commercial Services Reuse & Permission Terms of Use Privacy CBC Shop Jobs Doing Business with Us Renting Facilities Independent Producers Sitemap Accessibility It is a priority for CBC to create a website that is accessible to all Canadians including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive challenges. Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC-TV shows offered on CBC Watch. More about CBC Accessibility Accessibility Feedback ©2018 CBC/Radio-Canada. All rights reserved. Visitez Radio-Canada.ca
