united kingdom - Under English law, what limitations apply to arbitration of civil disputes? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Under English law, what limitations apply to arbitration of civil disputes? Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite Under U.S. law, almost all kinds of disputes between people who have contractual relationships with each other can be subject to binding arbitration with no appeal right or class action rights through a contractual term with only minimal regulation of the arbitration process. In English law, are there significant classes of civil disputes that can not be subjected to arbitration? For example, is binding pre-dispute arbitration prohibited (or required) for any significant subset of consumer disputes, landlord-tenant disputes, realtor disputes, employment disputes, banking disputes, or international disputes? Or, for example, are there contexts in which the duty to arbitrate is subject to strict scrutiny, either based upon either the arbitration process or the nature of the subject matter subject to arbitration? Also, in civil disputes, when they are subject to arbitration clauses, is the arbitration process subject to significant legal regulation in English law? For example, is the business/profession of arbitrating civil disputes one that requires licensing and is subject to government regulation that affects the arbitration process in any material respect? To be clear, when I say "arbitration", I mean a pre-dispute agreement to have a non-governmental private individual or firm resolve a civil dispute between parties bound by a common agreement of some kind, in lieu of resort to civil courts, where the agreement is binding without further action of the parties (with or without a right to a trial de novo or appeal of the decision either within the arbitration context or to a civil court). I do not mean mediation in which the parties are required to discuss settlement with the aid of a third party facilitator that only has any legal effect if both parties affirmative sign some sort of settlement agreement to particular terms after those terms are known. united-kingdom consumer-protection civil-procedure regulations arbitration share|improve this question asked Nov 28 '16 at 16:12 ohwilleke 46k254117 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 2 down vote accepted It is not true to say that there is "only minimal regulation" of arbitration in the US: arbitrations are conducted under law, usually the Federal Arbitration Act but sometimes equivalent state laws and must be conducted in accordance with the rules agreed to by the parties. Further they can be appealed, however, the grounds for appeal are restricted to those enumerated in the Act or agreed by the parties. In general, this is the case for all jurisdictions including England, however, the specific Acts that makes arbitration legal are different in each jurisdiction. Section 69 of the UK Arbitration Act 1996 enumerates the rights of appeal and which may and may not be excluded. That said, appeals from arbitrations are rarely initiated and exen more rarely upheld. A recent decision, NYK Bulkship (Atlantic) NV v Cargill International SA [2016] UKSC 20 has clarified this section: The only two grounds to challenge an award which cannot be waived in an English-seated arbitration are those of substantive jurisdiction or serious irregularity. The right to appeal an award on a point of law is not a mandatory provision of the English Arbitration Act 1996. Where this right to appeal on a point of law has not been excluded, an appeal can be brought under section 69 only with the agreement of the parties to the dispute or with the permission of the court. Under section 69(3), the court can only grant permission if (a) the determination of the point of law will substantially affect the rights of one or more parties, (b) the question is one which the tribunal was asked to answer, (c) the arbitral award is obviously wrong or else the decision is open to serious doubt and concerns a question of general public importance, and (e) it is just and proper for the court to rule on this issue despite the parties agreeing to resolve the dispute by arbitration. It is then at the court's discretion to confirm, vary or set aside the award or else to remit it to the tribunal in whole or in part for reconsideration in the light of their ruling. However, the statute provides that the court shall not exercise its power to set aside an award unless it is satisfied that it would be inappropriate to remit the award to the tribunal for reconsideration. http://hsfnotes.com/ As far as I know arbitration clauses in England are not mandatory in any class of contract nor can a court order arbitration (but they can order mediation). They are restricted in employment contracts where the employee has a statutory right to appeal to an employment tribunal in that they cannot be the sole remedy and they are prohibited in insolvency proceedings and criminal matters. Other than impartiality, there are no requirements under the Arbitration Act relating to the qualifications and characteristics of arbitrators. It is not necessary for an arbitrator to be a national of, or licensed to practice in, England. While not strictly relevant to English law recent decisions in the USA and Canada on the unconscionably of arbitration clauses in consumer contracts (where one party can offer a "take-it-or-leave-it" contract to the other) have come to diametrically opposed conclusions. In the USA these are enforceable, in Canada they are not: probably a reflection of the different attitude of the jurisdictions on laissez-faire versus social welfare styles of capitalism although in both jurisdictions they were 5-4 decisions so more finely balanced than you might think. I would guess that English courts would probably find the Candadian rather than the US decision more persuasive if and when the question is asked. In other common law countries, Australia is almost certainly on Canada's side particularly since for small-business contracts the standard is (since 16 November 2016) whether a term is "unfair" rather than "unconscionable". share|improve this answer answered Nov 28 '16 at 22:53 Dale M 48.8k12769 By minimal, I mean there is no mandated procedures except lack of individualized bias (not the same as impartiality) and that one cannot for example, vacate a U.S. arbitration award for blatant disregard of either the applicable law or the facts presented to the arbitrator. Even contractual bounds are virtually impossible to enforce. And outside California, there is virtually no substantive regulation of who serves as an arbitrator or how an arbitration must be handled or what potential biases must be disclosed. Unconscionability standards are very hard to establish in U.S. arbitration cases. – ohwilleke Nov 28 '16 at 23:37 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged united-kingdom consumer-protection civil-procedure regulations arbitration or ask your own question. asked 2 years ago viewed 105 times active 2 years ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 1How is a settlement agreement in a civil case approved? 4In English civil trial practice when does a barrister become involved? 1Pros and cons of binding arbitration vs. court of law? 0How does one supreme court case set the standard for all following cases? 0Partial Payment: ramifications under English & Welsh law? -1What is the difference between a “broad” and “narrow” arbitration agreement? 0Constraints on the scope of a civil action? 0Arbitration - what can be made public 0What does it mean “attempt arbitration”? 0consumer demand for arbitration with AAA: what are the first steps when fee paid by business? Hot Network Questions Changing field types so graduated symbols are available Why does typing an IP address instead of the corresponding domain name not show the website? How do you describe a nut which does not tighten Delete with multiple indices is extremely slow--workaround? Is it possible to remove CPUs from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe? What is the maximum age of cats? Do historians agree that most wars are caused by religion? Is it possible to access the email of a Lead's owner directly? Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? Why don't commercial airplanes carry Earth-observing instruments? How to improve logic to check whether 4 boolean values match some cases Do you remember the name of characters who attempted to revive you? Is it legal to travel with a suitcase full of physical cash (worthless banknotes) from Venezuela? Can I hold an action to do something I'm not currently capable of doing? What definitions were crucial to further understanding? Latin usage & perfect passive finite verb forms Why is JavaScript "safe" to run in the browser? What is this pic rebus mean? Is asking your PhD instructor a basic question considered inappropriate? Could we possibly see the shadow offset from Parker Solar probe on Earth? Why doesn't JavaScript warn me when I use arr.lenght (misspelled) instead of arr.length in a loop? I also use strict mode laptop noisy sound - fan or hdd? Given an image how to identify whether it is RAW file or not Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
