united states - What should a dual citizen do at a US Border Patrol interior checkpoint? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered What should a dual citizen do at a US Border Patrol interior checkpoint? Ask Question up vote 6 down vote favorite This question concerns United States Border Patrol interior checkpoints. These checkpoints are located away from the external border, but within 100 miles of it, at which traffic may be stopped in order to check the immigration status of the occupants. Noting 18 USC 1001 (see my related question for more information), I wonder how a dual citizen should react when faced with one of the usual questions asked by border patrol officers at these checkpoints: Are you a US citizen? For a person who is a citizen of the United States and at least one other country, is it okay simply to answer yes? For a person who is a citizen of multiple countries, not including the United States, is it okay simply to answer no? What country are you a citizen of? Is it necessary to disclose all countries of citizenship when responding to the second question? Does it matter if one of those countries is the US? united-states immigration share|improve this question edited Apr 13 '17 at 13:00 Community♦ 1 asked Mar 25 '16 at 22:46 phoog 7,43711437 1 The second question will also be interesting if you are a national, but not a "citizen", of a country. – user102008 Apr 3 '16 at 9:12 add a comment | 2 Answers 2 active oldest votes up vote 3 down vote accepted Yes. A multi-nation citizen who has US citizenship has equal US citizenship with every other citizen; therefore the answer to this binary question is "Yes". The citizenship(s) of anyone who does not have US citizenship is irrelevant to this question; thus, the answer to this binary question is "No". Yes. The main point here is to determine if you have the relevant documents and permissions to be legally present in the US. If you are a US citizen, a) this makes the process easier for you and b) avoids any possible issues if evidence is found of citizenship from another country, which will make immigration think that A) you are not a US citizen and b) you lied to them. Most people have only a single citizenship. That is the default mindset of immigration. There's no downside for you to inform them; there may be additional difficulties, delays, and scrutiny if you do not. If you are not a US citizen, most of the same applies. Additionally, lying (even by omission) can be grounds to have your legal status revoked. In summary, if you have the legal right to be in the US (e.g. US citizen, legal resident) being fully honest cannot hurt you, and can make the process smoother. If you have legal permission to be in the US, being fully honest will help prevent that permission from being revoked. share|improve this answer answered Apr 14 '16 at 21:37 sharur 2,019418 1 Thanks for your answer. As I understand it, if you claim to be a US citizen, the officer needs reasonable suspicion that you are not before you can be required to show your documents. In other words, the vast majority of US citizens should not be asked for "relevant documents." If a dual citizen is more likely to arouse suspicion, then requiring him or her to mention the non-US citizenship could put that person at a disadvantage. – phoog Apr 14 '16 at 21:55 2 I have to object to your phrase "being fully honest". There is a huge difference between being honest and being cooperative: resisting authority is not dishonest. See Bronston v. US 409 US 352. – user6726 Apr 14 '16 at 22:10 1 @sharur a dual citizen shouldn't be more suspicious, but I've read more than one thing that suggests that Border Patrol officers get incorrect or at best oversimplified training on immigration law. I've heard more than one story, too, of immigration officers telling US citizens that they're not allowed to have another nationality. Surely immigration officers should be better trained than Border Patrol officers. DL says nothing about immigration status (mine is from NY, not Real ID compliant). – phoog Apr 15 '16 at 17:55 1 @phoog: I agree both border patrol agents and immigration officers should have a better knowledge of immigration law. As for the DL, you are incorrect. dmv.org/ny-new-york/apply-license.php. One needs to prove legal residency to get a drivers's license (the actual legal rights, not the card). Real ID applies to the physical card itself. So the driver's license is in fact proof of legal residency (though not actual citizenship) as you have to have been a legal resident to get one. Based on the evidence you present, however, explaining that to the person checking might be difficult. – sharur Apr 15 '16 at 21:27 1 @sharur I don't see on the dmv page where it says you have to prove immigration status. The stuff claiming to be for non-citizens is actually for people who hold foreign DLs, who could be US citizens. The page is very poorly put together. To get an NY license, you have to be a resident of NY and you need to have an SSN, but that doesn't necessarily imply valid immigration status. – phoog Apr 15 '16 at 23:07 | show 7 more comments up vote 2 down vote You shouldn't have any problems or worries if you are lawfully in the US. A US Citizen (and dual nationals) should just state their US Citizenship unless asked for more info (which probably won't happen). Non-US Citizens should be honest and be able to state what their lawful status in the US is based on. Note: a non-US Citizen should never claim to be a US Citizen. This can result in removal (deportation) and a permanent bar to reentering the US. share|improve this answer edited Apr 14 '16 at 17:32 feetwet♦ 14.3k93991 answered Apr 12 '16 at 5:15 John Khosravi 762 Thanks for your answer. Do you have any basis for your assertion that dual-national US citizens should not mention their other nationality unless asked? Why wouldn't this count as concealment of a material fact? Also, you don't address the question of whether non-US dual nationals should disclose all nationalities or just one. (Also, with reference to your first sentence, is it possible for a US citizen to be unlawfully in the US?) – phoog Apr 12 '16 at 14:12 When questioned about an foreign alien's presence in the US, the dual nationality is not usually an issue. The question is about their lawful status (visa) that allows them to be in the US. I think you are worrying yourself too much about this issue. Unless you are charged with a crime, this process is very informal. Also, a US citizen has a lawful right to be in the US – John Khosravi Apr 13 '16 at 18:37 Thanks again for your response. I'm not particularly worried about it; it's more of an academic/theoretical interest. What I am worried about is my wife, who is in the US on a G-4 visa and will not carry her passport with her for fear of losing it; I worry that she might run afoul of 8 U.S.C. §1304 (e). But that is another question that I may ask separately. – phoog Apr 13 '16 at 19:02 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged united-states immigration or ask your own question. asked 2 years, 8 months ago viewed 417 times active 2 years, 7 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Linked 10 Is it legal to lie to a US federal law enforcement officer? Related 2In what circumstances are the police permitted to break the law? 3If one leaves the US to commit an act illegal in the US but legal in the country they travel to are they guilty of a crime? 4Can someone who does not consider himself a us citizen extradited and punished for a US felony crime due to a US citizenship? 1In 1970, how was Ted Cruz's citizenship determined? 0How to find regulations specified in the US Code? 6What happens if Congress declares war, but POTUS refuses to fight it? 3The term “foreign national” in US immigration law 4Qualifications or exceptions to a requirement to report to a port of entry 2Book published in the UK, public domain in home country, still under US copyright? 3Selling public domain ebook, how to avoid copyright infringement in the US? Hot Network Questions What is this glass (???) for? How to improve logic to check whether 4 boolean values match some cases Is it possible to access the email of a Lead's owner directly? Do you remember the name of characters who attempted to revive you? Is it possible to remove CPUs from Mario Kart 8 Deluxe? Is there a term for "the user can't use anything wrong" design? What definitions were crucial to further understanding? Mutually invisible foes. How can they fight? Does wire color matter in electronics? If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] Why do Republicans and others accept the propagandaic use of the term "Progressives"? What is the LaTeX code for this mathematical expression? How to affect priorities to bugs to developers and treat them accordingly? Finding magnitude of a complex number Can I hold an action to do something I'm not currently capable of doing? Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? Do dev teams put less constraints on themselves or have they less constraints in terms of work hours? MorphoPHONOLOGY Question Ideological rebus Are there any publically available recordings of conversations between ATC and pilots? How to solder Christmas lights insulated wire? What is the meaning and use of "seh" in Caribbean dialects of English? Changing field types so graduated symbols are available How to deal with anxiety and depression after being kicked out of PhD program? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
