united states - If one leaves the US to commit an act illegal in the US but legal in the country they travel to are they guilty of a crime? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered If one leaves the US to commit an act illegal in the US but legal in the country they travel to are they guilty of a crime? Ask Question up vote 3 down vote favorite Before anyone asks this is part legal curiosity, part proving for 'loopholes' that I could have villains in a story exploit, I don't need 100% accuracy so much as general guidelines, and any unique situation or known 'loophole' is also interesting. I'm curious about how the US handles travel to other countries to activities crimes that are illegal within the US but legal in the country they travel to. At first I thought that this would be legal, but I know sex tourism at the least is restricted, They actually make us take a training at work about how sex trafficking is bad in case we couldn't figure that one out on our own. A quick scan online tells me that the sex tourism thing is specific federal law. Outside of sex tourism of individuals under the age of 18 are there other situations where one can be punished for traveling to another country to commit a crime? If so are these specific laws that address only a few unique situations, or is there some general law that addresses many crimes committed by traveling to another country? I can think of a number of theoretical odd situations as fodder for story telling, I'll likely ask a few of them in more detail in later questions depending on the answer in this one. If someone wants to touch briefly on a few odd situations below in their answer I would be interested, but if any of these situations is too complex I'll ask them as a later follow up question. how does dual citizenship work in situations where it would be illegal for a US citizen to travel to country X to do activity Y, but the individual in question is not only a US citizen but also a citizen of X? How much does 'premeditation' apply to these rules? For instance my quick scanning of sex tourism law refers to an individual traveling to a country "with the intent to ...", does that mean if someone travels to a country and only then decides to do an activity it would be legal (ignoring the difficulty of proving it wasn't premeditated)? Is a non-US citizen within the US (for instance with a visa, or even an illegal alien who lives in the US) still subject to these sort of laws if they leave the US with the intent of doing something illegal within the US and then return? Edit: ...also Id love at least one other instance of an activity that would be a crime if someone travels elsewhere to do it. I'm thinking of potential loophole abuse questions I could ask, but I really don't want to ask them in context of the sex tourism law. Rather or not it's just a theoretical question to explore legal oddities I really don't like even hypothesizing the sort of situation that leads to someone trying to violate that particular law. united-states criminal-law share|improve this question edited Oct 21 '15 at 15:26 asked Oct 21 '15 at 15:19 dsollen 1,1421027 2 Possible duplicate of Breaking Laws in Different Jurisdictions – cpast Oct 21 '15 at 15:26 1 @cpast That question is too generic, the answer comes down to "it depends on country". Which is why I'm asking specifically about the United states and for examples of specific crimes that would be illegal. – dsollen Oct 21 '15 at 15:29 I wonder what would be for example the worst thing that your villain could do that is illegal in the USA and legal in Germany, or the other way round. – gnasher729 Dec 29 '17 at 22:46 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 8 down vote accepted Like many US legal questions, there is a Congressional Research Service report about this. It is not generally a violation of US law to do things in another country where the only connection with the US is that the offender is a US citizen. However, there are a number of general situations where the US has jurisdiction over federal crimes if either the victim or offender is a US citizen: if a place isn't within the jurisdiction of any country (e.g. Antarctica); a place used by a US government entity (like an embassy or airbase); crimes by American soldiers and those employed by or accompanying the military; etc. These are considered to be within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the US. Other laws apply if they say so. For instance, any US national committing war crimes inside or outside the US can be punished under US law; ditto for treason. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it illegal for a US national to bribe a foreign official anywhere outside the US for business reasons (if it's inside the US, there are more requirements). For instance, you aren't allowed to pay kickbacks to a foreign government's acquisition officer to buy your product. The CRS report has more (it doesn't include the FCPA, but that appears to be an oversight). Note that extraterritorial jurisdiction doesn't just apply if the person is a US national. US laws can also confer it if the victim is a US national, if the offense has a significant US component, if it's directed towards the US, if it's in violation of international law and the offender later turns up in the US, etc. For your scenarios: Dual citizenship doesn't matter. A US citizen is a US citizen, and is required to obey all laws that apply to US citizens, unless those laws explicitly exempt dual citizens. A dual citizen isn't treated differently by the government; as far as the US government is concerned, their US citizenship is all that matters (except for certain specific purposes like security clearances). In Kawakita v. United States, a US-Japanese dual citizen was convicted of treason against the US for aiding Japan in WWII. Depends. Plenty of these laws have no requirement that anything related to the crime actually happen in the US; for sex tourism, the subsection about traveling in foreign commerce for the purposes of engaging in illicit sexual conduct is followed by a subsection about engaging in illicit sexual conduct in foreign places. "Travel with the purposes of X" or "with intent to X" means you must have intended to do X at the time you traveled, but most extraterritorial laws don't control travel with intent to X (they cover X directly). Depends on the law. Some laws (like child sex tourism) apply to any permanent resident of the US as well as any citizen. Some apply to anyone, because they're based on a conspiracy started in the US. Others apply just to US nationals; a noncitizen isn't bound by them (for instance, no one but a US national can be charged with treason against the US, for obvious reasons). Still others apply to anyone who later turns up in the US, even if that is literally the only connection between the US and the offense (this is basically reserved for crimes against international law, like genocide). share|improve this answer answered Oct 21 '15 at 16:56 cpast 12.7k12458 Thank you, this is a very good answer. Just to clarify something I think you implicitly said (and my scanning of the linked article also seems to imply), it sounds like there are a few cases where essentially any federal law applies (areas that are technically US soil, US military, crime committed against us citizens sometimes) There has to be a pretty explicit law addressing it, which appears to be limited to general "significant national security/harm risk", a few laws inspired by treaties signed by many nations, and a small number of specific laws like sec tourism and bribery ones? – dsollen Oct 21 '15 at 18:05 1 "Some apply to anyone, because they're based on a conspiracy started in the US." Could you clarify? – Walt Jun 2 '16 at 20:46 When a court tries someone for an alleged offence in a foreign country they claim 'universal jurisdiction' . en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_jurisdiction – bdsl Jul 7 '16 at 23:19 Reading through your answer... So if a US company hired a British national, and that British national bribed some government official in Paris, the USA would not prosecute him because he is not a US citizen? – gnasher729 Dec 29 '17 at 22:40 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged united-states criminal-law or ask your own question. asked 3 years, 1 month ago viewed 2,354 times active 3 years, 1 month ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Linked 4 Can someone who does not consider himself a us citizen extradited and punished for a US felony crime due to a US citizenship? 3 Breaking Laws in Different Jurisdictions Related 2In what circumstances are the police permitted to break the law? 2Can computer generated images, text, or other artifacts infringe on a copyright? 4Can someone who does not consider himself a us citizen extradited and punished for a US felony crime due to a US citizenship? 1Could one be found guilty of a crime because he can't prevent cloud computer from being hosted in region where action is illegal? 2Can Canadians who are professional actors come to the U.S. for pleasure (non-work)? 3If someone forgets that they committed a crime, are they still guilty? 3How does one determine if illegal goods were accepted if an individual who has both legal and illegal source of income pays another party? 2Is it legal to deliberately misrepresent the US. legal system for your own benefit? -1Deportation at port of entry in the US 5Does Trump's Sept. 2017 travel ban violate the 1965 immigration act? Hot Network Questions Customise voicemail message based on caller MorphoPHONOLOGY Question A ring which contains a nonprime maximal ideal Is 不 A 不 B a grammatical structure like 又 A 又 B? What are the ethical concerns of giving a notice period to an incompetent employee when it’s not required by contract? If any two items in a list is equal to a given number [Python] What is this pic rebus mean? Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? Why is 2 * (i * i) faster than 2 * i * i in Java? Changing field types so graduated symbols are available Does the algorithm of the Greeks produce all prime numbers? How do you describe a nut which does not tighten Why is JavaScript "safe" to run in the browser? How to affect priorities to bugs to developers and treat them accordingly? Ideological rebus How did Euron Greyjoy manage to travel to Valyria and live? Digital Sumorial Can I hold an action to do something I'm not currently capable of doing? How was copying prevented when the first CD-ROM games were introduced? The Heisenberg Uncertainty Ray - A Hyper-Scanning Doomsday Weapon Is Ubuntu compatible with laptops that have touch screen features? Does wire color matter in electronics? What defines the legitimacy of an IRB? Can women also go shirtless in public legally? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
