united states - need terminology for visitation matter - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered need terminology for visitation matter Ask Question up vote 1 down vote favorite 1 I am a volunteer translator-advocate for a friend. Her son used to have shared custody, but a couple of months ago, my friend went to family court to change this. Now my friend has custody but the father has visitation rights, for two days per week. The father may choose whichever days he likes. (He has an irregular, somewhat unpredictable work schedule.) The father is upset about the change, and has stopped answering his phone. He doesn't respond to text messages either. He has not taken the initiative to have his son for a visit. He has not responded to a letter the boy dictated to me which we sent through the mail. What is a succinct way of describing the fact that the father has, in essence, abandoned the child emotionally? (He is still paying child support.) I need a succinct description for the purposes of letting the child's school know, so they can be sensitive to the child's feelings. (He is relieved not to be living half-time with his father, who was abusive, but at the same time he is devastated at the total lack of contact.) united-states new-york child-abuse share|improve this question edited Oct 27 '17 at 13:56 asked Aug 31 '15 at 22:07 aparente001 182113 1 While this is a difficult situation, I don't see any legal question. Consider either editing your question to make it a legal one, or maybe try asking on a more suitable site. parenting.stackexchange.com might be suitable. – sleske Oct 27 '17 at 14:10 3 I'm voting to close this question as off-topic because it does not seem to be about a legal problem. – sleske Oct 27 '17 at 14:10 @sleske - I'll try to clarify. I was looking for the legalistic terminology that is typically used to describe this all-too-common situation. However, this question is two years old and if you want to close it go ahead. The family in question has found a somewhat more workable arrangement in the meantime. – aparente001 Oct 27 '17 at 14:34 English Language & Usage entertains word requests of this sort. There's even a tag for it: english.stackexchange.com/questions/tagged/single-word-requests – phoog Oct 27 '17 at 17:30 @phoog - Yeah, well, there's some overlap between the two sites when it comes to terminology. But I really wanted some legal terminology in this case; hence, my choice of site. – aparente001 Oct 28 '17 at 2:32 add a comment | 2 Answers 2 active oldest votes up vote 1 down vote accepted He is "non-communicative" or has "ceased to communicate" with his son, and has "refrained from participating in his parenting time." He has become "uninvolved' in his son's life. FWIW, however, there isn't a lot of formal legal terminology in custody law so any language that clearly conveys the situations is fine and generally there is no good reason to be particularly brief or succinct in explaining a situation like this. More factual detail is better than precise terminology. share|improve this answer answered Oct 30 '17 at 19:01 ohwilleke 46k254117 add a comment | up vote 3 down vote In a case like this I would consider creating a Parenting Plan to cover details around visitation and communication and advance notice issues. Create the plan to be fair, and include specifics (like using email, and specifying the addresses). Petition the court to accept the parenting plan as it is necessary for effective co-parenting of the child. Parenting plans can cover any issues which there needs to be common agreement on, such as accomplishing school work, diet, medical care and do on. But the end objective is to enhance stability for the child. The term for the parent who is not involved would be something like a non-participative co-parent. It is important to remember that both parents have obligations to the child, not limited to finances. And in this instance one of the parents has elected, rather unilaterally, to not parent (at least to a significant extent). share|improve this answer edited Oct 27 '17 at 14:58 answered Oct 27 '17 at 8:32 mongo 21317 Thanks for the suggestion. It doesn't answer what I was asking, but it looks like a great suggestion nevertheless. – aparente001 Oct 27 '17 at 13:48 By establishing a framework for parenting, one then has a means of measuring activity, and assuring that one parent is not unduly inconvenienced by the lackadaisical parenting efforts of the other parent. Ongoing non-participation by the non-custodial parent, logged contemporaneously, is a powerful tool when the custodial parent needs to move or get some other consideration from the court. – mongo Oct 27 '17 at 14:53 Great bonus tip. I think you should add that to the answer. (Sadly, this still doesn't address my question.) – aparente001 Oct 28 '17 at 2:34 Perhaps you might restate your question, and since it is in Law, state the jurisdiction that you are dealing with. – mongo Oct 28 '17 at 13:54 I'm in New York State. I hope that answers your question. But terminology is terminology, regardless of what state I'm in. This doesn't seem like there would be regional differences. – aparente001 Oct 30 '17 at 4:04 | show 1 more comment Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged united-states new-york child-abuse or ask your own question. asked 3 years, 3 months ago viewed 76 times active 1 year, 1 month ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 1Non-custodial parent fails to exercise visitation — what can custodial parent do (NY)? 2What legal visitation rights do grandparents have with their grandchildren? 6Is it possible to end up in prison due to failure to appear in court for a civil matter? 0Need overarching term for laws and regulations 0What are the penalties for filing a false report to Child Protective Services? 1In an interstate adoption involving parents from two different states, which laws are used? 3Shared Parenting - How intoxicated does a parent have to be to deny visitation? 1How is child custody/visitation determined when there is no marriage? 5In the USA, may parents prevent their children from receiving gifts or acquiring owned property? 0Are parents allowed to not pay for their children's surgery? Hot Network Questions How does Brownian motion prove the existence of atoms? Is it halal to marry the daughter of my divorced wife if the child is from her ex-husband? Does wire color matter in electronics? Difference between "I know where I stand" and "I know my place" and their interchangeability Why doesn't JavaScript warn me when I use arr.lenght (misspelled) instead of arr.length in a loop? I also use strict mode How to affect priorities to bugs to developers and treat them accordingly? Latin usage & perfect passive finite verb forms Why is novelty mandatory for a Ph.D. degree? Did the transmeta processor architecture work by binary translation? What is the maximum age of cats? Do primary keys change when indexes are rebuilt or reorganized? Is a text only resume (.txt) unprofessional? Iconic Places and 820.5: Grandpa's silly math When does the soul leave the body after death? Dynamically Cast Map<String, SObject> To Specific SObject Viva voce question about another student "validating" my results Given limited space and weight what should I carry to get a fire going with damp wood? Is it legal to travel with a suitcase full of physical cash (worthless banknotes) from Venezuela? Ideological rebus Should I switch the transponder to STBY or not while changing codes? MorphoPHONOLOGY Question An object that is gold in one specific area but becomes worthless if you leave that area? Is a solar system around a black hole possible? Do historians agree that most wars are caused by religion? more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
