united states - Is it possible to end up in prison due to failure to appear in court for a civil matter? - Law Stack Exchange Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 174 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow, the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Log In Sign Up current community Law help chat Law Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company Business Learn more about hiring developers or posting ads with us By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understand our Cookie Policy, Privacy Policy, and our Terms of Service. Law Law Stack Exchange is a question and answer site for legal professionals, students, and others with experience or interest in law. Join them; it only takes a minute: Sign up Here's how it works: Anybody can ask a question Anybody can answer The best answers are voted up and rise to the top Home Questions Tags Users Unanswered Is it possible to end up in prison due to failure to appear in court for a civil matter? Ask Question up vote 6 down vote favorite 1 This is a question about the law in USA, and is regarding civil cases. This question is only regarding cases where a civilian, or a non-governmental organization, has sued another civilian. With this question I am not interested of cases related to traffic tickets or fines given by a police department (some law blog I was reading included these in an article about civil cases). The questions I wanted to ask are: Is it possible for the defendant to end up in prison if they fail to appear in the court for this kind of matter? If failure to appear does not always lead to prison, what are the kind of situations in which it would lead to that? united-states civil-law civil-procedure prison share|improve this question edited Dec 28 '16 at 1:13 feetwet♦ 14.3k93991 asked Dec 27 '16 at 3:52 coderworks 25927 add a comment | 1 Answer 1 active oldest votes up vote 9 down vote accepted Prison v. Jail First of all, failure to appear (in the U.S.) would led to incarceration in jail (a local government facility allowing for detention typically up to one year for misdemeanors), rather than prison (which is typically a state or federal government institution incarcerating people for a year or more pursuant to a felony conviction). A jail is typically run by the county sheriff or a city's chief of police. A prison is typically run by a warden appointed by a state department of corrections. A civil court never sends anyone to prison for failure to appear, or for that matter, as a sanction for any purpose. Even a multi-year remedial civil contempt sanction is served in jail rather than prison. When Can One By Jailed For Failure To Appear In A Civil Matter? Second, failure to appear can only lead to incarceration if: (1) the person who fails to appear in either subject to a subpoena requiring that person to appear, at a date and time certain in a particular place, as a witnesses, that is personally served upon them (or where personal service is waived by the person) (this is the same in civil and criminal practice), or (2) the person is served with a judgment creditor's interrogatories to be answered in person (which are the moral equivalent of a subpoena) and must be served in the same manner, or (3) the person fails to deliver a person pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus (which is the moral equivalent of a contempt of court finding and very uncommon) that has been served in the same manner, or (4) the person has been personally served (or has personally waived such personal service) with an order to show cause (at a specific date, time and place) why they should not be held in contempt of court. The precise name of this document can vary and could also be called a "writ" or a "citation", rather than an "order to show cause". Citations for traffic offenses or other ordinance violations or civil offenses are functionally equivalent to (4). Of course, in each of the cases (1) to (4) you obviously aren't incarcerated at the moment that you fail to appear as the whole problem is that you aren't there. Instead, in each of those cases, a warrant for your arrest is issued by the court and you aren't actually incarcerated until law enforcement manages to arrest you before the warrant is vacated because you do appear, or the warrant is vacated by stipulation of the parties approved by the court, or is vacated because the matter you were required to appear for is now moot (e.g. in the case of judgment creditor's interrogatories, the judgment is paid in full). How Long Is One Incarcerated For Failure To Appear? In cases (1)-(4) the duration of incarceration is only from the time of arrest until the person can be brought before the court at the soonest possible time to do whatever they were supposed to have shown up in person to do and failed to appear at, often a matter of a few hours and rarely more than a long weekend. These forms of incarceration are for the purpose of compelling your appearance in court by force, not for punishing someone for not showing up. Other Reasons People Are Incarcerated In U.S. Civil Courts One can also be incarcerated in a civil court because one is found to be in contempt of court after one has appeared and been found by the court in an in person hearing to be in contempt of court, but incarceration for contempt of court itself, as opposed to failure to appear at a contempt of court hearing, is never a sanction imposed for failure to appear. Other Sanctions For Failing To Appear Also, keep in mind that failing to appear can result in other consequences besides incarceration, the most common of which is to be found in default causing you to lose you legal case or whatever other legal matter was pending as a result of your failure to appear. Another common sanction for failure to appear (e.g. at a deposition when you are not under subpoena) is a monetary sanction to compensate others for the attorneys' fees incurred due to your non-attendance, and a determination that facts that could have been established if you had appeared will be deemed to be true regardless of reality. Civil Law Systems Compared In "civil law" countries whose legal systems are not based upon the English common law, judges do not have a generalized contempt of court power and the scheme by which people are sanctioned for failing to appear in civil matters is different. share|improve this answer edited Dec 27 '16 at 4:46 answered Dec 27 '16 at 4:23 ohwilleke 46k254117 add a comment | Your Answer Thanks for contributing an answer to Law Stack Exchange! Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. Some of your past answers have not been well-received, and you're in danger of being blocked from answering. Please pay close attention to the following guidance: Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers. draft saved draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Facebook Sign up using Email and Password Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking "Post Your Answer", you acknowledge that you have read our updated terms of service, privacy policy and cookie policy, and that your continued use of the website is subject to these policies. Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged united-states civil-law civil-procedure prison or ask your own question. asked 1 year, 11 months ago viewed 167 times active 1 year, 11 months ago Law Stack Exchange is for educational purposes only and is not a substitute for individualized advice from a qualified legal practitioner. Communications on Law Stack Exchange are not privileged communications and do not create an attorney-client relationship. Related 5Usage-Based Insurance Devices (Like Progressive's Snapshot) - Evidence of Liability and Public Policy 2What are consequences for defendant failing to meet orders of civil court? 4If you're homeless, can you be served or charged with failure to appear as a civil defendant? 2Why a civil court can order damages for killing a person? 6What happens if Congress declares war, but POTUS refuses to fight it? 0Can a judge deny bail for a failure to appear warrant arrest? 0In what situations is it a crime to provide an [EDIT: Image of possibly non-existent] fake or altered US gov't ID in digital form to a company 0Can I ever be legally fined for sharing that person A is person B? 1What does “shall not dismiss … merely” mean in Arizona? 4Is it possible for non-EU companies to avoid GDPR regulatory issues through filters and firewalls? Hot Network Questions Children's ghost story in 1980s whose character names started A, B, C How can i measure weight of my cat? Why is novelty mandatory for a Ph.D. degree? How to improve logic to check whether 4 boolean values match some cases Do dev teams put less constraints on themselves or have they less constraints in terms of work hours? laptop noisy sound - fan or hdd? Mac or PC computer file Bencher in Hebrew and English Term cancellation in limits Latin usage & perfect passive finite verb forms Are Agent Barton and Agent Romanoff ever called 'Hawkeye' and 'Black Widow' in the MCU? Is 不 A 不 B a grammatical structure like 又 A 又 B? Lost Ethertype in encrypted MACsec frames How to deal with anxiety and depression after being kicked out of PhD program? An object that is gold in one specific area but becomes worthless if you leave that area? If 2 Ensnaring Strikes affect the same target, does it have to make 2 saves to be unrestrained? What is this pic rebus mean? Can't see "home" partition in "other locations" Are there any countries having an official celebration for the annexation of foreign territory? A doubt about waves(why exactly diffraction occurs) Given an image how to identify whether it is RAW file or not Is asking your PhD instructor a basic question considered inappropriate? Delete with multiple indices is extremely slow--workaround? Can I buy only the glass in the Christmas market? Customise voicemail message based on caller more hot questions question feed Law Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Mobile Company Stack Overflow Stack Overflow Business Developer Jobs About Press Legal Privacy Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Life / Arts Culture / Recreation Science Other Stack Overflow Server Fault Super User Web Applications Ask Ubuntu Webmasters Game Development TeX - LaTeX Software Engineering Unix & Linux Ask Different (Apple) WordPress Development Geographic Information Systems Electrical Engineering Android Enthusiasts Information Security Database Administrators Drupal Answers SharePoint User Experience Mathematica Salesforce ExpressionEngine® Answers Stack Overflow em Português Blender Network Engineering Cryptography Code Review Magento Software Recommendations Signal Processing Emacs Raspberry Pi Stack Overflow на русском Programming Puzzles & Code Golf Stack Overflow en español Ethereum Data Science Arduino Bitcoin more (30) Photography Science Fiction & Fantasy Graphic Design Movies & TV Music: Practice & Theory Worldbuilding Seasoned Advice (cooking) Home Improvement Personal Finance & Money Academia Law more (15) English Language & Usage Skeptics Mi Yodeya (Judaism) Travel Christianity English Language Learners Japanese Language Arqade (gaming) Bicycles Role-playing Games Anime & Manga Puzzling Motor Vehicle Maintenance & Repair more (33) MathOverflow Mathematics Cross Validated (stats) Theoretical Computer Science Physics Chemistry Biology Computer Science Philosophy more (10) Meta Stack Exchange Stack Apps API Data Area 51 Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn site design / logo © 2018 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under cc by-sa 3.0 with attribution required. rev 2018.12.3.32297 Law Stack Exchange works best with JavaScript enabled
