University of Guelph -
        Home Page    × Skip to main content Menu NEWS / EVENTS VISIT / APPLY SEARCH GIVE TO U OF G STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF LOGIN Close Co-op Directory Library Map Services RESEARCH Improve Knowledge Our research at the University of Guelph improves life. We explore, we innovate, we invent, we educate; we create new knowledge that crosses natural, artificial and social boundaries to produce solutions that both protect and enlighten the eco-system of sustainable living. From how we feed the world to how we prosper and co-exist abroad and here at home, we will challenge the status quo and improve upon it. Learn more about life-improving research at the University of Guelph. UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE STUDIES; INTERNATIONAL Improve Learning The University of Guelph is one of Canada’s leading innovation and comprehensive postsecondary institutions. Because there are no single solutions to the world’s challenges, we educate and learn across disciplines. We learn through collaboration. Our students are better prepared for whatever the future holds as a result. Undergraduate and graduate studies, co-op education, open learning and international learning, the flexibility to tailor learning to the personal aspirations of everyone who studies and explores here: How we continuously improve learning and education improves life for our students, faculty, staff and in the context of our collective futures. Undergraduate Admission Graduate & Postdoctoral Studies Distance Education Co-operative Education Continuing Education Guelph International Academic Calendar College of Arts College of Biological Science College of Business & Economics College of Engineering & Physical Science College of Social & Applied Human Sciences Ontario Agricultural College Ontario Veterinary College U of G's Ridgetown Campus University of Guelph-Humber ALUMNI Improve Your Network There are over 140,000 U of G alumni around the world. The number grows by about 5,000 every year. This is our extended community of achievers. This is your network of like-minded Gryphons who are shaping a better world through their pursuits in just about every walk of life, research and work imaginable. As Alumni, graduates share events, activities and opportunities to benefit directly. They also give back. Alumni gifts help us continue the work that you start here on campus. To improve life is our shared challenge. What role are you playing: locally, nationally and internationally? Share your stories with us. Let’s tell the world about the University of Guelph together. Learn more about alumni affairs, activities and opportunities today. ABOUT U OF G Improve Living Over 24,000 students learn at the University of Guelph every year. More than 800 faculty teach here every year. More than 1,800 research projects to improve life in a variety of capacities are currently underway. Yet what the numbers don’t capture is how we live while we're here and after we leave. Our students, faculty and staff are engaged. They are passionate about being here. We are equally passionate about educating the whole person to shape better citizens of the world. That has been our focus for over 150 years: life, living, always improving. About the University President Board of Governors Senate Senior Administration Students Faculty & Staff Athletics Arboretum Bookstore Campus Community Police Diversity and Human Rights Historical Walking Tour Hospitality Services Student Affairs Student Housing Services University of Guelph Retirees Association (UGRA) WORK HERE Improve Opportunities When you become a U of G staff or faculty member, you join a community of dedicated people whose abilities, skills and actions provide essential support for the teaching and research activities for which the University is nationally recognized. Join our community and share our purpose – to Improve Life in a capacity that fits your skills and aspirations. Learn more about career opportunities and employment at the University of Guelph. Accessibility Contact Us Privacy Site Map © University of Guelph Choose U of G When you choose the University of Guelph, you join a community of learners who will shape our world's collective future. Our purpose is to Improve Life and there are many ways to join us. U of G offers more than 80 undergrad programs, more than 100 graduate and post-doctoral study programs, co-op education in a wide variety of disciplines, support for international students, diploma programs and access to a unique form of higher education at the University of Guelph-Humber. We’ll help you make the choices – we’ll help you explore the possibilities. Our community is tailored for students, and that difference is noticeable from the first moment you get in touch. UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS GRADUATE ADMISSIONS Tour U OF G Most of our students and graduates say their love affair with the University of Guelph started the moment they visited our campus. Join us for a campus tour that includes residence, learning environments, living and dining options, athletics and recreation and more. Take the tour – prepare to explore your future. CAMPUS TOURS Apply to U of G The University of Guelph Admissions team is ready to guide your application process right from the start. We’re here to help answer questions regarding admissions requirements, financing your education, special services and support for students with unique needs and choosing programs. Apply to Undergraduate Studies Apply to Graduate Studies Register for OpenEd courses and programs Explore U of G Search Search Submit Find everything you need to know about the University of Guelph using the search bar here. Or for quick reference, access answers to the most frequently asked questions by scanning the list below. Frequently Requested Information about... Academic Calendar Bookstore Current Opportunities (HR) Computing & Communication Services (CCS) Hospitality Housing Parking Residence Schedule of Dates Tuition Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube Pinterest Social Media Directory The University of Guelph, and everyone who studies here, explores here, teaches here and works here, is committed to one simple purpose: To Improve Life. CHOOSE YOUR LIFE SCIENCES ENGINEERING & TECH ARTS & SOCIAL SCIENCES FOOD & AGRICULTURE BUSINESS HUMAN HEALTH VETERINARY MEDICINE Pause
