UNT Graduate Student Council  | Toulouse Graduate School Skip to main content Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search Call us Contact Us UNT Map Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter People Contact Us FAQ Quicklinks Back MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect University Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT University of North Texas Toulouse Graduate School Search form Search Search MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Home Future Students Graduate Admissions Master's Programs Doctoral Programs Funding Your Graduate Education Exceptional Faculty and Research Practical Experience Academic and Career Support An Excellent Location Graduate Academic Advisors Graduate Catalog Clery Report on Campus Safety More Info Learn more about UNT’s 125 exceptional advanced degree programs, many nationally and internationally ranked. Request More Info Tour Our Campus Take a tour of UNT’s beautiful campus and see why we’re the perfect place to take your education and career further. Take a tour International Find all the information you need for applying to Toulouse Graduate School from outside the United States. International Info Newly Admitted & Current Students Orientation Theses and Dissertations Writing Resources Graduate Catalog Forms Travel Grants Cross Registration Graduation Deadlines Graduate Milestones Graduate Student Council Support Support services include Thesis/Dissertation Boot Camp, Professional Development, 3MT competition, and more. Support Services Graduation You've made it! Find all the resources for graduating and writing your thesis or dissertation. Graduation Teaching UNT provides resources to make your graduate assistantship as successful as possible with programs such as CLEAR. More Resources Faculty & Staff Faculty Research Graduate Faculty Nominations Graduate Council Graduate Advisor Meetings Forms Easily find faculty and staff specific forms for various academic needs. If not logged in you will be asked to log in to view the forms. View Forms Defense Notices If your student is defending their dissertation or thesis fill out this form and the defense will automatically be added to the events calendar. Defense Notification Resources Additional resources for UNT faculty and staff, such as staff workshops, job openings, and links to faculty success. More Resources Alumni Facebook LinkedIn North Texan Twitter UNT Alumni The Alumni Association engages the institution’s 407,000 alumni in the life of the university and to support alumni throughout every stage of life. Alumni Association Spotlights View the profiles of success and stories from UNT alumni who have graduated through the Toulouse Graduate School. Alumni Success Support Our alumni give back through volunteer hours, expertise and giving, among others. Your support helps ensure a top education for our students. Give Now People Contact Us FAQ MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Search form Search Search Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ Toulouse Graduate School You are here Home Newly Admitted & Current Students UNT Graduate Student Council UNT Graduate Student Council Who We Are The Graduate Student Council (GSC) is the official voice and student government for graduate students at UNT. We advocate on behalf of UNT graduate students to ensure that university administration and other stakeholders hear their opinions, needs, and interests. GSC was founded in 1968 to secure formal avenues of communication between representatives of the graduate student body and both the Dean of the Graduate School and the Graduate Council. On April 2015, we became the official student government of graduate students via a student referendum. Our mission is to improve the graduate student experience by advocating, connecting, and empowering. GSC is comprised of an Executive Branch, Judicial Branch, and Senate. Together, these bodies work to improve the graduate student experience at UNT. Our Legislative Branch, or Senate, consists of 54 graduate student representatives from each of the graduate degree granting departments at UNT. What We Do The Graduate Student Council is a multi-purpose organization focused on advocating, connecting, and empowering graduate students at UNT. We are the voice of the graduate student body and advocate for student needs and interests at all levels. Over the years, the GSC has worked with numerous UNT offices, administrators, faculty, and staff members to represent the needs and interests of graduate students at UNT. We promote other graduate student organizations’ programs and host university wide events that connect graduate students. We grant funding to graduate student organizations to host social and academic events and we contribute $20,000 to the Graduate Student Travel Grant administered by the Toulouse Graduate School. In addition, the GSC has engaged in advocacy efforts at the national level through its membership with the National Association of Graduate-Professional Students (NAGPS). Where We Are The GSC office is located in the University Union, Room 344. Stop by in person, call us at 940-369-6145, or email us at gsc@unt.edu. Top Explore GSC! Graduate Student Council General Assembly Meetings & Governing Documents Advocacy in Action GSC Branches Resources Connect With Us 2018-2019 GSC Elections Tweets by @UNT_GSC Main Menu Home Future Students Newly Admitted & Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni People Contact Us FAQ University Links MyUNT Blackboard EagleConnect UNT Directory UNT Map Jobs at UNT Email & Phone GraduateSchool@unt.edu 940-565-2383 Toulouse Graduate School 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 1155 Union Circle #305459 (USPS) 1147 Union Circle, ESSC 354 (UPS/FedEx) Denton, Texas 76203-5459 Visitor Information Call us Email Us UNT Map Apply now Schedule a tour Get more info Disclaimer | AA/EOE/ADA | Privacy | Electronic Accessibility | Required Links | UNT Home ©2018 University of North Texas Required Links
