US calls for release of young Americans trapped in China ahead of G20 - CNN Breaking News World+ AfricaAmericasAsiaAustraliaEuropeMiddle EastUK U.S.WorldPoliticsBusinessOpinionHealthEntertainmentStyleTravelSportsVideoLive TV Search » U.S. Edition+ U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference:U.S.InternationalConfirm U.S. Edition+ U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference:U.S.InternationalConfirm Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East UK 45 Congress Supreme Court 2018 Election Results Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Live Longer Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV • Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Coupons CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. International Español Arabic Set edition preference:U.S.InternationalConfirm FacebookTwitterInstagram US calls for release of young Americans trapped in China ahead of G20 By Ben Westcott, Jennifer Hansler and Sarah Faidell, CNN Updated 11:36 AM ET, Thu November 29, 2018 Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds. JUST WATCHED What to expect from US and China at G20 summit Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What to expect from US and China at G20 summit 02:20 Hong Kong (CNN)Ahead of a high stakes meeting between Chinese and US leaders at the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, a top US security official has demanded the release of two young Americans who say they've been prevented from leaving China. Victor and Cynthia Liu, aged 19 and 27, and their mother, Sandra Han, are believed to have been refused permission by Beijing authorities to leave China, where they have been held since June. US authorities told CNN they are working closely with the two Liu children who are reportedly being used to pressure their father, Liu Changming, a high-profile Chinese fugitive, into returning to Beijing where he is wanted for financial crimes. On Tuesday, US National Security Adviser John Bolton became the most high-profile US figure to comment the case, with a post on Twitter declaring: "These Americans need to be allowed to return home." Victor and Cynthia Liu Even though Victor Liu was born in the US and both Liu children hold a US passport, Beijing views them as citizens of China and subject to its jurisdiction. China has accused the Liu family of being "involved in economic crimes." Read More According to the New York Times, who first reported the story on Sunday, Victor Liu was due to start his second year at Georgetown University in Washington before their trip to China, while his sister Cynthia had a job lined up in New York. Cynthia Liu reportedly had a job lined up for her in New York when she went to China in June. Their mother, Sandra Han, was detained shortly after her children's arrival in June. When the siblings arrived at the airport, they were told by authorities they weren't allowed to leave. Their current location in China is unclear. Their father Liu Changming is accused by Beijing of issuing billions of dollars in illegal loans before fleeing the country in December 2007. In 2009, China issued a worldwide Interpol red notice for his arrest and he appeared on a list of China's 100 top fugitives in 2015. In a statement provided to CNN, the Liu family's lawyer, Washington-based David Pressman, said: "Out of concern for the security of these young Americans, we will refrain from public comment as we continue our efforts to constructively and directly engage the Chinese government to allow them to return home." JUST WATCHED Pence warns China is trying to undermine Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pence warns China is trying to undermine Trump 03:40 The controversy comes ahead of US President Donald Trump's planned meeting with Chinese leader Xi Jinping at the G20 summit in Argentina this week, where the two leaders will discuss a possible end to the US-China trade war. Representatives for the Liu family are hopeful Trump will raise their case with Xi. The US State Department official told CNN they were in "close contact" with Victor and Cynthia Liu and were providing consular assistance as appropriate. "We routinely have shared our concern about China's use of exit bans on American citizens with the Chinese government and will continue to do so until we see a transparent and fair process," the official said. China has a long history of imposing exit bans on individuals in an attempt to force suspected criminals to surrender, or to resolve business disputes. Wife of China's detained Interpol chief says he might already be dead In January, the US State Department issued a travel warning to US citizens, noting how foreign nationals had been "arbitrarily detained or detained for reasons related to 'state security'." Georgetown University President John DeGioia met with Liu in Beijing earlier this month. In a statement to CNN, the university said it was working with representatives in Beijing on behalf of its student. Speaking at a press conference on Monday, Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Geng Shuang said all members of the Liu family have "valid Chinese citizenship identity documents" and were subject to Chinese laws. "They are suspected and involved in financial crimes and restricted from leaving the country according to law. I want to repeat that China is a lawful country. Chinese judicial authorities will deal with the case according to law," he told reporters. The Chinese government doesn't recognize dual citizenship of its citizens, instead considering all dual Chinese citizens and their children to be Chinese nationals. Since the two young Americans arrived in June, they've attempted to leave three times. The two claim their father severed ties with the family in 2012, according to the New York Times. This story has been updated. CNN's Steven Jiang contributed to this article. From Our Partners Dr. Marty Top U.S. Vet Reveals: The Worst Dog Food You Can Buy Gundry MD How To: Fix Dark Spots And Uneven Skin Tones Activated You Actress: "Eating This Every Morning Changed My Life" Gundry MD Cardiologist: "I Beg Everyone To Quit 3 Foods" Beverly Hills MD Plastic Surgeon Shares: "You Can Fill In Wrinkles At Home" (Here's How) Content by LendingTree How to pay off your house ASAP (It's so simple) Need cash? How to access your home's equity If You're Current or Former Military, You'd Better Read This Crush your debt: refinance to a 15 yr fixed Your best refinance rates for November 2018 Home U.S. Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia Europe Middle East UK 45 Congress Supreme Court 2018 Election Results Business Markets Tech Media Success Perspectives Video Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Food Fitness Wellness Parenting Live Longer Stars Screen Binge Culture Media Tech Innovate Gadget Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Autos Video Destinations Food & Drink Play Stay Videos Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Video Live TV Digital Studios CNN Films HLN TV Schedule TV Shows A-Z CNNVR Coupons CNN Underscored -Explore -Wellness -Gadgets -Lifestyle CNN Store How To Watch VR Archives More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN U.S. Edition Set edition preference: U.S. International Confirm U.S. International Arabic Español © 2018 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC AdChoices About us CNN Studio Tours CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource
