US Defends Uyghurs at the United Nations | | Bitter Winter Skip to primary navigation Skip to content Skip to primary sidebar Skip to footer HOME ARTICLES DOCUMENTS INTERVIEWS NEWS TESTIMONIES PICTURES VIDEOS FEATURED ABOUT EDITORIAL BOARD LANGUAGES 繁體中文 한국어 日本語 ITALIANO FRANÇAIS ESPAÑOL DEUTSCH GLOSSARY Bitter Winter A magazine on \n religious liberty and \n human rights in China [last_update_time] You are here: Home / News / US Defends Uyghurs at the United Nations US Defends Uyghurs at the United Nations 05/26/2018 Bitter Winter Source: Foreign Affairs Date: May 26, 2018 Foreign Affairs reports on changing patterns in the United States’ official attitude toward China’s Uyghur Muslim minority. In the years following 9/11, the US and China found a common enemy in the Uyghurs as the United States detained 22 of them without charges for years at the detention center in Guantánamo Bay, while China keeps several hundred thousand Uyghurs in re-education camps. This week, US diplomats championed the cause of the Uyghurs at the United Nations accusing Beijing of preventing the exiled Uyghur activist Dolkun Isa from entering UN headquarters in New York. China accuses Isa of inciting and funding separatism and terrorism and claims that his Germany-based organization, the World Uyghur Congress, is a political wing of the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement, which the UN Security Council designated a terrorist organization in September 2002. The US and Germany maintain that there is no evidence of links between the two groups. The US defends Isa, saying China was seeking to retaliate against an advocate who has shed light on political repression against the Uyghurs. China’s representatives at the UN deny these allegations, saying it abolished its use of re-education labor camps long ago and that the Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities enjoy “the best protection of their human rights in history.” Bitter Winter has published several reports confirming that a large and growing number of Uyghurs is detained in re-education camps. These camps, far from having being abolished, also hosts thousands of members of The Church of Almighty God and other banned religious minorities. Tagged With: Muslim Uyghurs Bitter Winter Bitter Winter reports on how religions are allowed, or not allowed, to operate in China and how some are severely persecuted after they are labeled as “xie jiao,” or heterodox teachings. We publish news difficult to find elsewhere, analyses, and debates. Placed under the editorship of Massimo Introvigne, one of the most well-known scholars of religion internationally, “Bitter Winter” is a cooperative enterprise by scholars, human rights activists, and members of religious organizations persecuted in China (some of them have elected, for obvious reasons, to remain anonymous). Related articles China Is Deprogramming One Million “Religious Extremists” United Nations Condemn “Re-Education Camps” for Uyghurs China Moves Against Muslim Uyghur Diaspora The Whole Village Sent to Re-Education Camp in Shihezi, Xinjiang Read more “Studies” in Prison: Staff Member Uncovers Details of a Xinjiang Camp... Bitter Winter continues exposing the lies by Chinese authorities about the “tr... Muslims Pushed to the Fringes of Housing Market Police notification about Uyghur travelers. As a result of discriminatory poli... Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and F... ﻿ While China tries to defend the indefensible claiming that the transformation... Suspected of Extremism if Not Singing at Weddings Urgent Notice on Further Improving Home-Stay Program. The employees at a hospi... Primary Sidebar Search this website Follow us Most Read Articles Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang Faculty and Staff at Universities Fired for Religious Belief Underground Priest: “Catholicism in China is Facing Calamity” Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass The Church of Almighty God Hit Again in Jiangxi Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: Videos Citizens in Hubei Suppressed for Opposing Plant Construction (Videos) Christian Congregations Keep the Faith Despite Persecutions (Videos) Pictures More “Legal Education Centers” Exposed Propaganda and Culture Shows Instead of Sunday Mass Catholics Worship Outside a Locked-Up Pilgrimage Site Religious Terms Online Might Lead to Surveillance and Arrest Topics Anti-Religion Activity in SchoolsBuddhism in ChinaCatholic ChurchChinese Communist PartyChristian Faith in ChinaChurch of Almighty GodHouse ChurchesIslam in ChinaMuslim UyghursPolice BrutalityRe-Education CampsReligious LibertyThree-Self ChurchTortureXie Jiao Organizations Footer EDITORIAL BOARD Editor-in-Chief MASSIMO INTROVIGNE Director-in-Charge MARCO RESPINTI ADDRESS CESNUR Via Confienza 19, 10121 Torino, Ltaly, Phone: 39-011-541950 E-MAIL We welcome submission of unpublished contributors, news, and photographs. Each submission implies the authorization for us to edit and publish texts and photographs. We reserve the right to decide which submissions are suitable for publication. Please, write to [email protected] Thank you. Newsletter Subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required Email Address * Choose a language English Italiano 繁體中文 Français 한국어 Español 日本語 Deutsch Leave this field empty if you're human: ARCHIVES December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 Follow us Download the BITTER WINTER APP now! LINKS Copyright © 2018 · Bitter Winter · PRIVACY POLICY Breaking News New Exclusive Video: Another “Transformation Through Education” Camp for Uyghurs Exposed in Xinjiang November 26, 2018 Camps for Uyghurs, “Schools” or Jails? Exclusive Report, Photos, and Footage from Bitter Winter November 12, 2018 ∧ By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information Accept The cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. If you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "Accept" below then you are consenting to this. Close
