Using a Remote Desktop or Application VMware Docs MyLibrary times MyLibrary check-circle-line exclamation-circle-line close-line Using a Remote Desktop or Application < The client provides a navigation sidebar with toolbar buttons so that you can easily disconnect from a remote desktop or application or use a button click to send the equivalent of the Ctrl+Alt+Delete key combination. Feature Support Matrix When you access a remote desktop or application from the browser-based HTML Access client, some features are not available. Internationalization The user interface and documentation are available in English, Japanese, French, German, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, Korean, and Spanish. Connect to a Remote Desktop or Application Use your Active Directory credentials to connect to the remote desktops and applications that you are authorized to use. Connect to a Server in Workspace ONE Mode Beginning with Horizon 7 version 7.2, an administrator can enable Workspace ONE mode on a Connection Server instance. Use Unauthenticated Access to Connect to Remote Applications A Horizon administrator can use the Unauthenticated Access feature to create Unauthenticated Access users and entitle those users to remote applications on a Connection Server instance. Unauthenticated Access users can log in to the server anonymously to connect to their remote applications. Shortcut Key Combinations Regardless of the language used, some key combinations cannot be sent to the to a remote desktop or application. International Keyboards When using non-English keyboards and locales, you must use certain settings in your client system, browser, and remote desktop. Some languages require you to use an IME (input method editor) on the remote desktop. Screen Resolution If the Horizon Administrator configures a remote desktop with the correct amount of video RAM, the Web client can resize a remote desktop to match the size of the browser window. The default configuration is 36MB of video RAM, which is comfortably more than minimum requirement of 16MB if you are not using 3D applications. H.264 Decoding If you use a Chrome browser, you can allow H.264 decoding in the HTML Access client for remote desktop and application sessions. Setting the Time Zone The time zone used in a remote desktop or application is automatically set to the time zone in your local machine. However, when using the HTML Access client, you might need to manually set the time zone if it cannot be correctly determined due to some daylight saving policies. Using the Sidebar After you connect to a remote desktop or hosted application, you can use the sidebar to launch other applications and desktops, switch between running desktops and applications, and perform other actions. Use Multiple Monitors By using a Chrome browser (version 55 or later), you can use multiple monitors in HTML Access Web client to display a remote desktop window. Using DPI Synchronization The DPI Synchronization feature ensures that the remote desktop's DPI setting matches the client machine's DPI setting for new remote sessions. When you start a new session, Horizon Agent sets the DPI value in the remote desktop to match the DPI value of the client machine. Sound You can play sound in your remote desktops and applications, but some limitations apply. Copying and Pasting Text It is possible to copy text to and from remote desktops and applications. Your View administrator can set this feature so that copy and paste operations are allowed only from your client system to a remote desktop or application, or only from a remote desktop or application to your client system, or both, or neither. Transferring Files Between the Client and a Remote Desktop With the file transfer feature, you can transfer (upload and download) files between the client and a remote desktop. File transfer to or from applications is not supported. Using the Real-Time Audio-Video Feature for Webcams and Microphones With the Real-Time Audio-Video feature, you can use your client machine's webcam or microphone in a remote desktop or application. Real-Time Audio-Video is compatible with standard conferencing applications and browser-based video applications, and supports standard webcams, audio USB devices, and analog audio input. Log Off or Disconnect With some configurations, if you disconnect from a remote desktop without logging off, applications in the desktop can remain open. You can also disconnect from a server and leave remote applications running. Reset a Remote Desktop or Remote Applications You might need to reset a remote desktop if the desktop operating system stops responding and restarting the remote desktop does not solve the problem. Resetting remote applications quits all open applications. Restart a Remote Desktop You might need to restart a remote desktop if the desktop operating system stops responding. Restarting a remote desktop is the equivalent of the Windows operating system restart command. The desktop operating system usually prompts you to save any unsaved data before it restarts. © VMware, Inc × × × × exclamation-circle-line check-circle-line : × exclamation-circle-line | check-circle-line exclamation-circle-line x × " "?
