Vacuum packing - Wikipedia Vacuum packing From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Vacuum packing is a method of packaging that removes air from the package prior to sealing. This method involves (manually or automatically) placing items in a plastic film package, removing air from inside, and sealing the package.[1] Shrink film is sometimes used to have a tight fit to the contents. The intent of vacuum packing is usually to remove oxygen from the container to extend the shelf life of foods and, with flexible package forms, to reduce the volume of the contents and package.[2] Vacuum packing reduces atmospheric oxygen, limiting the growth of aerobic bacteria or fungi, and preventing the evaporation of volatile components. It is also commonly used to store dry foods over a long period of time, such as cereals, nuts, cured meats, cheese, smoked fish, coffee, and potato chips (crisps). On a more short term basis, vacuum packing can also be used to store fresh foods, such as vegetables, meats, and liquids, because it inhibits bacterial growth. Vacuum packing greatly reduces the bulk of non-food items. For example, clothing and bedding can be stored in bags evacuated with a domestic vacuum cleaner or a dedicated vacuum sealer. This technique is sometimes used to compact household waste, for example where a charge is made for each full bag collected. Vacuum packaging products, using plastic bags, canisters, bottles, or mason jars, are available for home use. For delicate food items which might be crushed by the vacuum packing process (such as potato chips), an alternative is to replace the interior gas with nitrogen. This has the same effect of inhibiting deterioration due to the removal of oxygen. Contents 1 External sealers 2 Single Vacuum Chamber Machines 3 Double Vacuum Chamber Machines 4 Automatic Belt Vacuum Chamber Machines 5 Thermoforming (rollstock) Vacuum Packaging Machines 6 Shelf life 7 High Barrier Shrink Vacuum Bags 8 Preventing freezer burn 9 Sous-vide cooking 10 Food safety 11 References 12 Further reading External sealers[edit] External vacuum sealers involve a bag being attached to the vacuum-sealing machine externally. The machine will remove the air and seal the bag, which is all done outside the machine. A heat sealer is often used to seal the pack. Single Vacuum Chamber Machines[edit] Play media This video shows vacuum packaging of rice. Tabletop Vacuum Packaging Machine Single chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed within the machine. Like external sealers, a plastic bag is typically used for packaging. Once the product is placed in the machine, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then, there is a heat seal inside the chamber that will seal the bag, after sealing the bag the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Chamber sealers are typically used for low-to-medium-volume packaging. This style of vacuum machine is also capable of sealing liquids due to equal pressure in the chamber and the bag eliminating the risk of the liquid being suck out of the open edge of the bag. Double Vacuum Chamber Machines[edit] Double Chamber Vacuum Packaging Machine Double chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed in a plastic bag within the machine. Once the product is placed in the machine on the seal bar, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then a seal bar inside the chamber seals the product in the bag, after sealing the bag the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Double chamber sealers are typically used for medium-volume packaging, and also have the capability to vacuum seal liquids. The lid generally swings from one side to another, increasing production speed over a single chamber model. Double chamber vacuum packaging machines generally have either spring-weighted lids or fully automatic lids. Double chamber vacuum packaging machines are commonly used for: Fresh Meat Processed Meat Cheese (hard and soft) Candy & Chocolate Automatic Belt Vacuum Chamber Machines[edit] Automatic Belt Vacuum Chamber Machine. Automatic belt vacuum chamber machines offer vastly increased speed and automation and accommodate large products. Automatic belt chamber sealers require the entire product to be placed in a plastic bag or flow wrapped pouch within the machine. The product travels on the conveyor belt, it is automatically positioned in the machine on the seal bar, the lid is closed and air is removed. Then a seal bar inside the chamber seals the product in the bag. After sealing the bag, the chamber is refilled with air by the automatic opening of a vent to the outside. This oncoming pressure squeezes all remaining air in the bag. The lid is then opened and the product removed. Automatic belt vacuum chamber machines are typically used for high-speed packaging of large items, and also have the capability to vacuum seal liquids. The lid generally travels straight up and down. Automatic belt vacuum chamber packaging machines are commonly used for: Fresh Meat (large portions) Processed Meat Large Sausage logs Cheese (hard and soft) Thermoforming (rollstock) Vacuum Packaging Machines[edit] Thermoform packaging machines are used in larger production facilities for vacuum packaging products. Vacuum Packaging in large production facilities can be done with thermoforming machines. These are Form-Fill-Seal style machines that form the package from rolls of packaging film (webbing). Products are loaded into the thermoformed pockets, the top web is laid and sealed under a vacuum, producing vacuum packaged products. Thermoforming can greatly increase packaging production speed. Thermoformed plastics can be customized for size, color, clarity, and shape to fit products perfectly, creating a consistent appearance. One of the most commonly used thermoformed plastics is PET, known for a high-strength barrier resistant to outside tampering and an ease of molding into designated designs and shapes.[3] Some common uses for Thermoforming in vacuum packaging include: Fresh & Marinated Meat Sausage Cheese Candy / Chocolate Grain Grab-and-Go Snacks (beef jerky, snack sticks) Pharmaceutical and Medical Products Coins / Collectables Shelf life[edit] Depending on the product, atmosphere, temperature, and the barrier properties of the package, vacuum packaging extends the shelf life of many foods.[4][5] The shelf life of meats can be extended by vacuum packaging, particularly when used with modified atmosphere packaging. [6] [7] High Barrier Shrink Vacuum Bags[edit] The amount of shelf life enhanced by a vacuum bag is dependent on the structure in the material. A standard vacuum bag is composed of a PA/PE structure where PA is for puncture resistance and PE is for sealing. The high barrier category includes the usage of more layers focused on the prevention of oxygen permeability, and therefore shelf life protection. There are two materials used in high barrier structures, polyvinylidene chloride (PVDC) and ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH). Shelf life indication can be effectively measured by how many cubic centimeters of oxygen can permeate through 1 square meter of material over a 24-hour period. A standard PA/PE bag allows on average 100 cubic centimeters, PVDC allows on average over 10, and EVOH on average 1 cubic centimeter. Multi-layer structures allow the ability to use strong oxygen-barrier materials for enhanced shelf life protection. The PremiumPack structure is a good example of EVOH based high barrier shrink material. Preventing freezer burn[edit] When foods are frozen without preparation, freezer burn can occur. It happens when the surface of the food is dehydrated, and this leads to a dried and leathery appearance. Freezer burn also ruins the flavor and texture of foods. Vacuum packing reduces freezer burn by preventing the food from exposure to the cold, dry air. Sous-vide cooking[edit] Vacuum packaging also allows for a special cooking method, sous-vide. Sous-vide, French for under vacuum, involves poaching food that is vacuum sealed in a plastic bag. Food safety[edit] In an oxygen-depleted environment, anaerobic bacteria can proliferate, potentially causing food-safety issues. Some pathogens of concern in vacuum packed foods are spore-forming non-proteolytic Clostridium botulinum, Yersenia enterocolitica, and Listeria monocytogenes.[8] Vacuum packing is often used in combination with other food processing techniques, such as retorting or refrigeration, to inhibit the growth of anaerobic organisms.[8] References[edit] ^ Perdue, R (2009), "Vacuum Packaging", in Yam, K L, Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology, Wiley (published 2010), ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 ^ Soroka, W. Illustrated Glossary of Packaging Terminology (Second ed.). Institute of Packaging Professionals. ^ Ingenuity, Plastic. "PET vs. PVC: Which Material is Better for Packaging?". Retrieved 2017-12-19. ^ Gorris, L G M (1992). "Modified Atmosphere and Vacuum Packaging to Extend the Shelf Life of Respiring Food Products" (PDF). HortTechnology. 2 (3): 303–309. Retrieved August 14, 2018. ^ Beltran, David (2005). "Effect of different sanitizers on microbial and sensory quality of fresh-cut potato strips stored under modified atmosphere or vacuum packaging" (PDF). Postharvest Biology and Technology. 37: 37–46. Retrieved August 14, 2018. ^ Garcia-Esteban, Marta (2004). "Comparison of modified atmosphere packaging and vacuum packaging for long period storage of dry-cured ham: effects on colour, texture and microbiological quality" (PDF). Meat Science. 67 (1): 57–63. Retrieved August 14, 2018. ^ Seidman, S C (1983). "VACUUM PACKAGING OF FRESH BEEF: A REVIEW". Journal of Food Quality. 6 (1): 29–47. Retrieved August 14, 2018. ^ a b Mills, John; Donnison, Andrea; Brightwell, Gale. "Factors affecting microbial spoilage and shelf-life of chilled vacuum-packed lamb transported to distant markets: A review". Meat Science. 98 (1): 71–80. doi:10.1016/j.meatsci.2014.05.002. Further reading[edit] Robertson, G.L., Food Packaging: Principles and Practice, 3rd edition, 2013, ISBN 978-1-4398-6241-4 Yam, K. L., Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology, John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 The Colonel In The Kitchen: A Surprising History Of Sous Vide at National Public Radio v t e Packaging General topics Active packaging Child-resistant packaging Contract packager Modified atmosphere/modified humidity packaging Package pilferage Package testing Packaging engineering Reusable packaging Shelf life Shelf-ready packaging Shelf-stable Sustainable packaging Tamper-evident Tamper resistance Wrap rage Product packages Alternative wine closure Beer bottle Box wine Case-ready meat Cosmetic packaging Disposable food packaging Egg carton Foam food container Food packaging Glass milk bottle Growler Luxury packaging Milk bag Optical disc packaging Drug packaging Plastic milk container Screw cap (wine) Water bottle Wine bottle Containers Aerosol spray Aluminium bottle Aluminum can Ampoule Antistatic bag Bag-in-box Bags and flexible containers Barrel Biodegradable bag Blister pack Boil-in-bag Bottle Box Bulk box Cage Case Carboy Carton Chub Clamshell Corrugated box design Crate Disposable cup Drum Endcap Envelope Flexible intermediate bulk container Folding carton Glass bottle Insulated shipping container Intermediate bulk container Jar Jerrycan Jug Juicebox Keg Multi-pack Oyster pail Packet (container) Padded mailer Pail Paper bag Paper sack Plastic bag Plastic bottle Popcorn bag Retort pouch Sachet Security bag Self-heating can Self-heating food packaging Shipping container Skin pack Spray bottle Tetra Brik Tin can Thermal bag Tub (container) Tube Unit load Vial Wooden box Materials and components Adhesive Aluminium foil Bail handle Bioplastic Biodegradable plastic BoPET Bubble wrap Bung Cellophane Closure Coated paper Coating Coextrusion Corrugated fiberboard Corrugated plastic Cushioning Desiccant Double seam Foam peanut Gel pack Glass Hot-melt adhesive Kraft paper Label Lid Linear low-density polyethylene Liquid packaging board Low-density polyethylene Metallised film Modified atmosphere Molded pulp Nonwoven fabric Overwrap Oxygen scavenger Package handle Packaging gas Pallet Paper Paper pallet Paperboard Plastic film Plastic pallet Plastic wrap Polyester Polyethylene Polypropylene Pressure-sensitive tape Pump dispenser Screw cap Screw cap (wine) Security printing Security tape Shock detector Shock and vibration data logger Shrink wrap Slip sheet Staple (fastener) Strapping Stretch wrap Susceptor Tamper-evident band Tear tape Temperature data logger Time temperature indicator Tinplate Velostat Processes Aseptic processing Authentication Automatic identification and data capture Blow fill seal Blow molding Calendering Canning Coating Containerization Corona treatment Curtain coating Die cutting Die forming (plastics) Electronic article surveillance Extrusion Extrusion coating Flame treatment Glass production Graphic design HACCP Hermetic seal Induction sealing Injection moulding Lamination Laser cutting Molding Papermaking Plastic welding Plastics extrusion Printing Quality assurance Radio-frequency identification Roll slitting Shearing (manufacturing) Thermoforming Track and trace Vacuum forming Ultrasonic welding Vacuum packaging Verification and validation Machinery Barcode printer Barcode reader Bottling line Calender Can seamer Cartoning machine Case sealer Check weigher Conveyor system Extended core stretch wrapper Filler Heat gun Heat sealer Industrial robot Injection molding machine Label printer applicator Lineshaft roller conveyor Logistics automation Material-handling equipment Mechanical brake stretch wrapper Multihead weigher Orbital stretch wrapper Palletizer Rotary wheel blow molding systems Shrink tunnel Staple gun Tape dispenser Turntable stretch wrapper Vertical form fill sealing machine Environment, post-use Biodegradation Environmental engineering Glass recycling Industrial ecology Life-cycle assessment Litter Paper recycling Plastic recycling Recycling Reusable packaging Reverse logistics Source reduction Sustainable packaging Waste management Packaging portal • Category: Packaging v t e Food preservation Biopreservation Canning Cold chain Curing Drying Fermentation Freeze-drying Freezing Hurdle technology Irradiation Jamming Jellying Jugging Modified atmosphere Pascalization Pickling Potting Confit Potjevleesch Salting Smoking Sugaring Tyndallization Vacuum packing Food preservation portal • Category: Food preservation Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vacuum_packing&oldid=863557554" Categories: Food preservation Vacuum Packaging Hidden categories: Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Català Deutsch Español فارسی Français Italiano עברית 日本語 Norsk Suomi Tiếng Việt 中文 Edit links This page was last edited on 11 October 2018, at 14:54 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
