War and Peace - Our World in Data Our World in Data SDGs Blog About Donate Entries Population Population World Population Growth Life Expectancy Child Mortality Future Population Growth Fertility Rate Health Health Cancer Mental Health Smallpox Causes of Death Substance Use Alcohol consumption Global Health Polio Life Expectancy Suicide Financing Healthcare Maternal Mortality Eradication of Diseases Burden of Disease Malaria Vaccination HIV / AIDS Smoking Food Food Micronutrient Deficiency Diet Compositions Meat and Seafood Production & Consumption Water Use and Sanitation Alcohol consumption Obesity Food per Person Hunger and Undernourishment Famines Human Height Employment in Agriculture Yields and Land Use in Agriculture Fertilizer and Pesticides Food Prices Energy Energy CO₂ and other Greenhouse Gas Emissions Energy Production & Changing Energy Sources Fossil Fuels Renewables Environment Environment CO₂ and other Greenhouse Gas Emissions Indoor Air Pollution Natural Catastrophes Air Pollution Water Use and Sanitation Ozone Layer Plastic Pollution Oil Spills Technology Technology Technology Adoption Technological Progress Growth & Inequality Growth & Inequality Global Extreme Poverty Economic Growth Income Inequality Incomes across the Distribution Global Economic Inequality Economic inequality by gender Work & Life Work & Life Happiness and Life Satisfaction Light Human Development Index (HDI) Child Labor Female Labor Supply Urbanization Working Hours Homelessness Public Sector Public Sector Corruption Public Spending Financing Healthcare Taxation Financing Education Global Connections Global Connections Tourism Trade and Globalization War & Peace War & Peace War and Peace Nuclear Weapons Peacekeeping Terrorism Military Spending Politics Politics Corruption Democracy Violence & Rights Violence & Rights Homicides Ethnographic and Archaeological Evidence on Violent Deaths Human Rights Violence against & Rights for Children Education Education Global Rise of Education Pre-Primary Education Primary and Secondary Education Tertiary Education Quality of Education Literacy Educational Mobility & Inequality Returns to Education Teachers and Professors Science and Research Financing Education Projections of Future Education Intelligence Media Media Internet Books Culture Culture Trust Optimism & Pessimism SDGs Blog About Donate Population World Population Growth Life Expectancy Child Mortality Future Population Growth Fertility Rate Health Cancer Mental Health Smallpox Causes of Death Substance Use Alcohol consumption Global Health Polio Life Expectancy Suicide Financing Healthcare Maternal Mortality Eradication of Diseases Burden of Disease Malaria Vaccination HIV / AIDS Smoking Food Micronutrient Deficiency Diet Compositions Meat and Seafood Production & Consumption Water Use and Sanitation Alcohol consumption Obesity Food per Person Hunger and Undernourishment Famines Human Height Employment in Agriculture Yields and Land Use in Agriculture Fertilizer and Pesticides Food Prices Energy CO₂ and other Greenhouse Gas Emissions Energy Production & Changing Energy Sources Fossil Fuels Renewables Environment CO₂ and other Greenhouse Gas Emissions Indoor Air Pollution Natural Catastrophes Air Pollution Water Use and Sanitation Ozone Layer Plastic Pollution Oil Spills Technology Technology Adoption Technological Progress Growth & Inequality Global Extreme Poverty Economic Growth Income Inequality Incomes across the Distribution Global Economic Inequality Economic inequality by gender Work & Life Happiness and Life Satisfaction Light Human Development Index (HDI) Child Labor Female Labor Supply Urbanization Working Hours Homelessness Public Sector Corruption Public Spending Financing Healthcare Taxation Financing Education Global Connections Tourism Trade and Globalization War & Peace War and Peace Nuclear Weapons Peacekeeping Terrorism Military Spending Politics Corruption Democracy Violence & Rights Homicides Ethnographic and Archaeological Evidence on Violent Deaths Human Rights Violence against & Rights for Children Education Global Rise of Education Pre-Primary Education Primary and Secondary Education Tertiary Education Quality of Education Literacy Educational Mobility & Inequality Returns to Education Teachers and Professors Science and Research Financing Education Projections of Future Education Intelligence Media Internet Books Culture Trust Optimism & Pessimism War and Peace Nuclear Weapons Peacekeeping Terrorism Military Spending Contents I. Empirical View I.1 The past was not peaceful I.2 In Europe the second half of the 20th century was extraordinarily peaceful I.3 Wars and Other Atrocities in the Very Long Run I.4 The 20th Century I.5 War and Peace after 1945 I.6 Other forms of large-scale violence I.7 The Share of Battle Deaths is Declining even Faster I.8 A Greater Number of Increasingly Less-Deadly Conflicts I.9 Ongoing Wars II. Data Quality & Definition III. Data Sources III.1 Long run perspective III.2 After 1945 War and Peace by Max Roser[cite] Our articles and data visualizations rely on work from many different people and organizations. When citing this entry, please also cite the underlying data sources. This entry can be cited as: Max Roser (2018) - "War and Peace". Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: 'https://ourworldindata.org/war-and-peace' [Online Resource] This entry presents an empirical perspective on war and peace. We also published a data visualization history of human violence here on OurWorldInData.org which presents empirical data showing that we are now living in the most peaceful time in our species' existence. I. Empirical View I.1 The past was not peaceful It would be wrong to believe that the past was peaceful. One reason why some people might have this impression is that many of the past conflicts feature less prominently in our memories, they are simply forgotten. An overview of all the conflicts for which we have an estimate of the number of fatalities is shown in the visualization below. The red circles visualize the conflicts listed in the Conflict Catalog authored by Peter Brecke. Brecke's dataset contains information on 3708 conflicts, but for the more distant past it is still incomplete. Brecke is lacking an estimate of the number of fatalities for many past conflicts, and we can suspect that the existence of many conflicts is unknown altogether. In addition to the individual conflicts, the death rate from all conflict across the globe is shown. (The red line uses the Conflict Catalogue data, and the blue line uses a dataset constructed from PRIO and UCDP data). Global deaths in conflicts, since 14001 I.2 In Europe the second half of the 20th century was extraordinarily peaceful The following Gantt chart shows the years in which European countries (or their predecessor states) took part in an international wars. Below the country-by-country visualization we see the sum (per half century) of all years in which European countries fought wars. Years in which European countries took part in an international war, 1500-20002 Percentage of years in which the 'Great Powers' fought one another, 1500-20153 Death rates from military conflicts in England, 1170s-1900s – Clark (2008)4 I.3 Wars and Other Atrocities in the Very Long Run A list of 'Dictionaries or Encyclopedias of Wars and Battles' is presented by Peter Brecke in his article 'The Long-Term Patterns of Violent Conflict in Different Regions of the World'.5 'The 100 Worst Atrocities' over the last millennia – New York Times6 CLICK HERE to see the infographic in more detail. I.4 The 20th Century International battle deaths per 100,000 people, 20th Century – Acemoglu (2012)7 I.5 War and Peace after 1945 The Absolute Number of War Deaths is Declining since 1945 The absolute number of war deaths has been declining since 1946. In some years in the early post-war era, around half a million people died through direct violence in wars; in contrast, in 2016 the number of all battle-related deaths in conflicts involving at least one state was 87,432. The decline of the absolute number of battle deaths is visualized in the following graph that shows global battle deaths per year by world region. There are three marked peaks in war deaths since then: the Korean War (early 1950s), the Vietnam War (around 1970), and the Iran-Iraq and Afghanistan wars (1980s). There has been a recent increase in battle deaths driven by conflict in the Middle East, particularly in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. Battle-related deaths in state-based conflicts since 1946, by world region I.6 Other forms of large-scale violence The chart above refers only to battle deaths occurring in conflicts that involved at least one state on one of the opposing sides. For more recent years, we show these 'state-based' conflict deaths alongside battle deaths in 'non-state' conflicts (where two or more organisations are fighting but no state is involved), and also violent deaths in 'one-sided violence' (where there is only one organised aggressor, such as in genocidal violence). We see that, in recent years, state-based conflicts form the majority of such deaths, though the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 stands out for its very high death-toll. Violent deaths in conflicts and one-sided violence since 1989 I.7 The Share of Battle Deaths is Declining even Faster The previous two graphs showed absolute numbers, but as the world has seen rapid population growth (see our entry on global population growth), it is more appropriate to look at relative numbers. Here we show the battle death in state-based conflicts per 100,000 people per year. The figures are shown by type of conflict. Rate of battle deaths in state-based conflicts by type of conflict, since 1946 I.8 A Greater Number of Increasingly Less-Deadly Conflicts As we have seen, the number of war victims varies hugely between different wars; whereas 1,200,000 died during the the Korean War (1950–1953), other wars had 'just' 1,000 victims. For this reason, statistics on the number of wars should not be considered without information on the size of these conflicts. The following figure shows that the overall number of ongoing conflicts each year has increased, as compared to the immediate post-WWII period. This increase however only relates to civil conflicts within states. Conflicts related to the expansion or defence of colonial empires ended with decolonisation. Conflicts between states have almost ceased to exist. Number of state-based conflicts by type, since 1946 The increase in the number of wars shown before is predominantly an increase of smaller and smaller conflicts. This follows from the previously shown facts that the number of war victims declined while the number of conflicts increased. The decreasing deadliness of conflicts is shown in the following graph. Deadliness of wars - average battle deaths per conflict by decade, 1950-2016 I.9 Ongoing Wars Information on ongoing wars that is always up-to-date can be found at Wikipedia's List of Ongoing Military Conflicts. After the documented decline of war, large parts of the world have now been peaceful for an unprecedented long period. Although wars are still fought, the world is now more peaceful than ever.8 II. Data Quality & Definition Definition of War Most data for the period 1945 and later are taken from the PRIO/UCDP dataset. The following definitions quoted from the website of the Human Security Report Project apply: A conflict is coded as a war when the battle-death toll reaches 1,000 or more in a given calendar year. An extrastate armed conflict is a conflict between a state and an armed group outside the state’s own territory. These are mostly colonial conflicts. An interstate armed conflict is a conflict fought between two or more states. An intrastate armed conflict (also known as a civil conflict) is a conflict between a government and a non-state group that takes place largely within the territory of the state in question. An intrastate armed conflict becomes an internationalized intrastate armed conflict when the government, or an armed group opposing it, receives support, in the form of troops, from one or more foreign states. For more information on definitions visit the website of the Human Security Report. III. Data Sources III.1 Long run perspective Uppsala Conflict Data Program (UCDP) and Peace Research Institute Oslo (PRIO) Data: Armed conflict data Geographical coverage: Global Time span: 1948-2008 Available at: Online here Peter Brecke's Conflict Catalog Data: 3708 conflicts, data on parties, fatalities, date and duration Geographical coverage: Global Time span: 1400 CE to present Available at: Online at Clio Infra III.2 After 1945 There are two major projects that gather on wars on a global scale for the post-war period and make their finding publicly available: 1. The Correlates of War Project The database is here The Wikipedia page is here 2. The PRIO, UCDP & Human Security Reports PRIO and UCDP collaborate to build the data set on wars. This data set is the base for the annual publication of the Human Security Project and for most of the data in this post. Peace Research Institute of Oslo (PRIO) The database is here The wikipedia page is here Uppsala Conflict Data Program (UCDP) The database is here The wikipedia page is here Human Security Report Project The database is here Graphs and data for the 2012 report is available here The wikipedia page is here Data on Civil Wars Data on on civil conflicts for the period 1945–99 was collected by Fearon and Laitin and can be found here. Footnotes The Conflict Catalog (Violent Conflicts 1400 A.D. to the Present in Different Regions of the World) authored by Peter Brecke contains information on 3708 conflicts, data on parties, fatalities, date and duration between the year 1400 and 2000. It is available at the Center for Global Economic History here. The Battle Death data from 1900 is constructed by combining PRIO Battle Deaths Dataset v.3.1 and v.2.0 and the UCDP Battle-related Deaths dataset, v.17.2. These are available at the organisations' respective websites, here and here. These data are taken from the CLIO Infra Project. The original source of these data is the Conflict Catalog by Peter Brecke, which you can access directly here. The data are taken from figure 5-12 in Pinker (2011) – The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined. Viking Adult. The original source of the data are Levy & Thompson (2011) - The Arc of War (Origins, Escalation, and Transformation), The University of Chicago Press, Chicago and London The Source is Clark (2008) - A Farewell to Alms: A Brief Economic History of the World. Princeton University Press. The line shows a fifty year moving average of combat death rates in England. The article is online here, and the list can be found in the appendix. This infographic is taken from the New York Times; the original is here. The source of the data is White (2011) - The Great Book of Horrible Things - The Definitive Chronicle Of History's 100 Worst Atrocities. W. W. Norton & Company. The website of the book is here. Acemoglu (2012) - The world our grandchildren will inherit: the rights revolution and beyond. Essay prepared for Economic Possibilities for Our Grandchildren edited by Ignacio Palacios-Huerta, MIT, 2012. The article is online at the website of the MIT here. The data used for this figure are the “best estimates” from the PRIO-UPSALA dataset from Lacina and Gleditsch (2005) - 'Monitoring Trends in Global Combat: A New Dataset of Battle Deaths', European Journal of Population vol. 21(2–3): 145–166. The website of the PRIO database is here. International battle deaths are those recorded in conflicts between two or more recognized states. For more information on this claim have a look at Mueller (2009) - War Has Almost Ceased to Exist: An Assessment. In Political Science Quarterly, 124, 2, 297--321. and Pinker (2011) – The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined. Viking Adult. Our World In Data Edit Page Our World in Data is a creative commons publication about human civilization at a global scale. AboutFeedbackSubscribeTwitterFacebookGitHubDonate
