Washington Post: Breaking News, World, US, DC News & Analysis - The Washington Post Sections Home Politics Opinions Sports Local National World Business Tech Lifestyle Entertainment Video Jobs Classifieds WP BrandStudio Democracy Dies in Darkness Try 1 month for $1 Username Sign In Account and Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk Subscribe Account and Profile Newsletters & Alerts Gift Subscriptions Contact Us Help Desk November 29, 2018 Nov. 29, 2018 Democracy Dies in Darkness Edition: U.S. & World | Regional In the News Mansion fire Bullied refugee ‘Sextortion’ Abcde Marc Lamont Hill McDonald's bacteria Al Gore Fox News Death wish Road rage Sinclair Darren Rovell Reuben Foster Michael Cohen pleads guilty in Mueller probe to lying to Congress Prosecutors laid out a litany of lies that Cohen, a former personal attorney to President Trump, admitted telling about a Moscow real estate project that Trump pursued while he ran for office. By Rosalind S. Helderman, Matt Zapotosky and Devlin Barrett 3 hours ago The FixAnalysis 4 key takeaways from Cohen’s new plea deal We don’t yet know why President Trump’s former fixer pleaded to that crime now — or even why special counsel Robert S. Mueller III would want his plea at this point. But the document offers some clues. By Aaron Blake 4 hours ago Whitaker knew of plea in advance, which could strain his ties with Trump Matthew Whitaker, who is Mueller's nominal supervisor, has been publicly critical of the special counsel investigation in the past. By Matt Zapotosky 2 hours ago Hours before plea, Trump asks if probe will ‘just go on forever’ Donald Trump and then-wife Ivana Trump visit St. Petersburg in 1987. (Maxim Blokhin/TASS) ‘We will be in Moscow’: The story of Trump’s 30-year quest to do business in Russia Donald Trump's 2016 effort to expand his brand there, as revealed in Cohen's plea, capped decades of failed attempts. His refusal to give up that ambition during his campaign now colors his public embrace of Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose help Cohen sought. By Rosalind S. Helderman and Tom Hamburger 1 hour ago ‘All The Best People’ How Manafort and Stone helped create the swamp Trump said he’d drain Long before Donald Trump won the presidency, Paul Manafort and Roger Stone were rethinking what it means to be a lobbyist and exploring loopholes that would eventually disrupt how Washington works. By Manuel Roig-Franzia 12 hours ago Graphic: Who has been charged in the probes of Russian interference in the 2016 election Deal to pass farm bill scraps House GOP plan for new food stamp work requirements Lawmakers have struck a final farm-bill deal that scraps a plan — backed by House Republicans and President Trump — that would have added new work requirements for older food stamp recipients and for parents with children 6 and older. By Jeff Stein 2 hours ago Democrats reject new Republican plan to pay for Trump’s wall The Republican approach would have spread $5 billion over two years. The Democrats’ move escalates the chances of a partial government shutdown next week. By Erica Werner and Seung Min Kim 1 hour ago Opinions Opinions Trump talked up Russia during now-revealed secret Moscow project talks By Greg Sargent Trump should be freaked out right about now By Jennifer Rubin This bill could help begin to fix the federal prison system. It must pass. By Newt Gingrich Cohen’s new plea deal may be only the tip of the iceberg By Paul Waldman My son has autism. He deserves separate sensory-friendly opportunities. By Whitney Ellenby More trouble for Belgium’s system of euthanasia By Charles Lane More Top Stories More Top Stories BREAKING NEWS Sen. Tim Scott says he will block confirmation of Trump judicial nominee amid racial controversy The South Carolina Republican said Thursday that he could not support Thomas Farr, who drew opposition over his work defending voter ID laws that the courts said disenfranchised African American voters in North Carolina. By John Wagner and Seung Min Kim 6 minutes ago Kremlin touts Trump-Putin meeting — before Trump cancels it President Trump said he was calling off the talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin following Russia’s seizure of Ukrainian ships and crew members this week. By Anne Gearan and John Wagner 1 hour ago Ahead of Argentina trip, Trump’s G-20 hosts strain to please him Listen LIVE (Video: The Washington Post; photo: Joshua Lott for the Post) Washington Post Live Education leaders debate school choice, teacher pay, federal funding National education policy takes center stage at The Washington Post. Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, former U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, Michigan State University President John Engler and other education leaders discuss issues facing education in America. New Trump administration insurance guidelines would undermine rules of the Affordable Care Act According to new advice issued by Trump administration health officials, states would be free to redefine the use of ACA subsidies — the first assistance the government has ever offered consumers to help them better afford monthly insurance premiums. By Amy Goldstein 5 hours ago In a first, NASA is outsourcing its next moon lander to a private company NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine has said that leveraging commercial capabilities would allow for more frequent and affordable access to the lunar surface. By Sarah Kaplan 3 hours ago No, McDonald’s touch screens are not contaminated with poop You’ve probably seen the tabloid headline. But the reality is far more mundane, not the public health pandemonium it suggests. By Kristine Phillips 2 hours ago Visual Stories Visual Stories In Sight (Jimmy Fike) It’s not possible to eat all plants, but this photographer shows you which ones you can Graphic (Michael Scherer, Kevin Uhrmacher and Kevin Schaul/Post) Democrats are starting to angle for 2020, even if they deny it Graphic (The Washington Post) Who has been charged in Russia probe and why Visual Story (Charlotte Farmer for The Post) A look at DC holiday traditions, from Melania Trump’s red trees to a camel at Mount Vernon Story (Ricky Carioti/The Post) Virgin Galactic’s quest for space: Richard Branson knows the agony of space flight. Now he’s set on triumph. Photos (HomeVisit) Inside the Washington area’s most expensive homes for sale Video (Zoeann Murphy/ The Washington Post) Philip Glass: The greatest influence was my father's record store UP NEXT Philip Glass: The greatest influence was my father's record store Play Video 2:16 UP NEXT More than 5,000 migrants wait for asylum in Tijuana. Here's the long legal road ahead. Play Video 1:58 UP NEXT Opinion | Where's the love for WikiLeaks now, Mr. President? Play Video 1:13 UP NEXT We played 'Monopoly for Millennials,' and it hurt our feelings Play Video 4:26 Most Read 1 Opinion Trump should be freaked out right about now 2 Analysis 4 key takeaways from Michael Cohen’s new plea deal 3 Republican Sen. Tim Scott says he will block confirmation of Trump judicial nominee amid racial controversy 4 Michael Cohen, Trump’s former lawyer, pleads guilty to lying to Congress about Moscow project 5 A little girl named Abcde was mocked by a Southwest gate agent. The airline has apologized. Market Watch Dow 25,338.84 Today 0.11% S&P 2,737.76 Today 0.22% NASDAQ 7,273.08 Today 0.25% Last Updated:4:54 PM 11/29/2018 Stories from The LilyThe Lily, a publication of The Washington Post, elevates stories about women. Perspective What does sex look like after sexual trauma? Seven survivors of assault talk about their recovery process. Jill Soloway of ‘Transparent’: ‘A queer identity and a nonbinary identity allowed me to integrate all parts of myself’ The Lily’s 2018 gift guide: 52 items made and curated by women Politics After loss, Rep. Barbara Lee wonders when black women get a seat in Democratic leadership Analysis CNN fires Marc Lamont Hill in wake of remarks criticizing Israel and calling for a ‘free Palestine’ ‘It’s a business. We’re numbers’: Many hurt by GM cuts blame others, not Trump Trump ‘embraces dictators of all stripes,’ Elizabeth Warren says World Mexico’s new leader is riding a wave of anti-corruption furor that’s changing Latin America Comey asks judge to stop congressional committees’ bid to compel his private testimony Trump administration tries to reassure Europe ahead of expected withdrawal from arms control treaty Indonesia’s disaster teams struggle to go it alone. That also makes them national heroes. National Analysis How American overdose and suicide deaths have changed since 1999 ICE detainee hanged himself after being taken off suicide watch A N.J. family is dead, a mansion is burned — and a sibling is charged with murder Postal Service clarifies mission is ‘mail, not drugs' after 16 workers were sent to prison for delivering cocaine PostEverything Perspective Why small groups of vaccine refusers can make large groups of people sick Perspective The Chinese gene-editing experiment was an outrage. The scientific community shares blame. Perspective What would a real fiscal policy look like? The second in a series of ‘reconnection agenda’ posts. Perspective Mike Pompeo’s Faustian bargain Local Man accused in death at Charlottesville rally was ‘filled with anger,’ prosecutor said Old Dominion issues all-clear after bomb threat What obstacles are left for the ERA? Virginia’s legislature — and other hurdles too Prosecutors say complicated web of relationships led to Ballston man’s death Sports Analysis Oklahoma or Ohio State for College Football Playoff? It could come down their biggest flaw. Chris Thompson and Jamison Crowder complete back-to-back practices, look close to returning Police make arrest after threatening tweets toward Jeff Brohm’s high school River Plate-Boca Juniors match reportedly moved to Madrid after bus attack in Buenos Aires Lifestyle One dough can deliver cookies to match everyone’s tastes Starbucks will soon start blocking porn on its public WiFi Teddy’s Bigger Burgers and the price it has paid for a viral ‘grilled rat’ video Perspective Carolyn Hax: Try to overlook the in-laws’ flaws Arts Reba McEntire never needed to be the best. She simply had to want it most. Review A look at the man who helped solidify Led Zeppelin’s hard-partying reputation Margaret Atwood to publish sequel to ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ Like haunted houses? Step into ‘An Inspector Calls,’ a Broadway phenomenon now touring the country. Technology Inside the futuristic restaurant, where a robot has replaced the bartender Review “Battlefield V”: It feels as if the best is yet to come Airbnb will test prototype homes next year How Waymo is trying to get people used to self-driving cars Business & Real Estate Analysis Does Trump get one thing right about the Fed? Mortgage rates hold steady, taking a pause after the Thanksgiving holiday Deutsche Bank headquarters raided in case connected to Panama Papers Analysis Is a ‘Netflix effect’ killing prestige films? Federal Government Some veterans with ALS were deprived of health care benefits, VA watchdog finds Perspective Racist incidents on the rise, union for government workers warns Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke remains defiant amid ethics probes Perspective Connolly plans defense of federal employees as incoming subcommittee chair Obituaries Gloria Katz, Oscar-nominated screenwriter of ‘American Graffiti,’ dies at 76 S. Bruce Smart Jr., business executive and Reagan trade official, dies at 95 Ed Pastor, Arizona’s first Hispanic congressman, dies at 75 Randolph L. Braham, leading historian of the Holocaust in Hungary, dies at 95 washingtonpost.com © 1996-2018 The Washington Post Subscribe Sign In Help and Contact Us Digital Products Terms of Sale Print Products Terms of Sale Terms of Service Privacy Policy Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Terms of Use Policies and Standards Digital Products Terms of Sale Print Products Terms of Sale Terms of Service Privacy Policy Submissions and Discussion Policy RSS Terms of Service Ad Choices Get Us Home Delivery Digital Subscription Gift Subscriptions Mobile & Apps Newsletters & Alerts Washington Post Live Reprints & Permissions Post Store Photo Store e-Replica Contact Us Help & Contact Info Reader Representative Advertise News Service & Syndicate About Us In the Community Careers PostPoints Newspaper in Education Today's Paper WP BrandStudio Events
