What they say
 - Regional - Chinadaily.com.cn USEUROPEAFRICAASIA 中文双语Français HOME CHINA WORLD BUSINESS LIFESTYLE CULTURE TRAVEL WATCHTHIS SPORTS OPINION REGIONAL FORUM NEWSPAPER China Daily PDF China Daily E-paper MOBILE Regional/ News What they say China Daily | Updated: 2018-11-20 07:29 The China Marine Economy Expo is a large marine economic and trade event co-hosted by the Ministry of Natural Resources and the Guangdong provincial government. It is an important platform to showcase marine economy development and the innovative fruits of marine science and technology. It plays an active role in serving the national marine strategy and promoting development of the country into a marine powerhouse. Zhong Xuanhui, deputy secretary general of the Guangdong provincial government As a co-host of the expo, we hope that by providing a high-level platform of internationalized marine economic communication and cooperation, we can serve marine economy development and marine scientific and technological innovation and also build a new brand for helping development of the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road. Wei Guoqi, deputy director at the marine strategic planning and economy department of the Ministry of Natural Resources This year's expo is arranged in a professional and high-level way and is attracting global companies. The transactions to be conducted here, the number and quality of exhibitors and the levels of forums at the expo are expected to achieve new records, and the practical result should be new levels of economic and trade cooperation. Jiang Jianjun, mayor of Zhanjiang The China Marine Economy Expo is a national-level exhibition event. The coastal tourism display area of this year's expo will, by providing the "coastal tourism plus" communication and cooperation platform, showcase the province's related quality products to guests from China and abroad. The event will become an important aspect of Guangdong's coastal tourism and related communication. Mao Cheng, deputy chief of the Guangdong Provincial Culture and Tourism Department The China Foreign Trade Center and the Zhanjiang government signed a strategic cooperation agreement in 2017 that is related to the expo, utilizing the experience of attracting buyers and exhibitors for the China Import and Export Fair to bring more vitality to the expo. This year, we have improved in satisfying the purchasing needs of the marine engineering sector and invited large contractors of marine engineering equipment. We have added a special trade area for marine scientific and technological results and at the same time, technological research centers will talk with and give suggestions to exhibitors at the expo. Lin Xiaohong, deputy general manager at Canton Fair Advertising Co The China Marine Economy Expo is an international exhibition and is greatly influential in the industry. This year, China Merchants Group is again co-organizing the expo and will lead its advantaged resources such as China Merchants Port Holdings Co and China Merchants Industry Holdings Co to attend the event. It will host themed forums on port logistics, offering platforms for profound dialogues and high-level communications. Han Dong, South China general manager of China Merchants Shekou Industrial Zone Holdings Co China Shipbuilding Industry Corp, one of the main organizers of the 2018 expo, will use its advantages, including profound scientific research and its wide industry presence, to offer a communication platform for ships, marine engineering and military trade, and to develop the expo into an influential brand event. Zhang Mingqian, director at reform office of China Shipbuilding Industry Corp Yunzhou Technology has attended the expo several times and the 2017 expo improved a lot in terms of both scale and the brand image. In particular, we displayed the newest unmanned surface vehicles, which drew attention from industry leaders and buyers. The brand publicity effect was beyond our expectations. Zhang Yunfei, founder and CEO of Zhuhai-based Yunzhou Technology (China Daily 11/20/2018 page10) Special Chancheng embraces high-tech to cut red tape Guangzhou's Tianhe a modern, industrialized business district 2017 China South Asia Expo, Nepal Foshan's real economy to fulfill its promise Hankoubei's Wuhan model China Hi-Tech Fair 2017 World Fly-in Expo takes place in Wuhan 2017 Pingyao International Photography Festival Xiangzhou District: A Fertile Ground for Innovation Guangdong to hold globally important Internet Plus Expo Inner Mongolia Normal University SME fair draws eager participation of overseas players BACK TO THE TOP HOME CHINA WORLD BUSINESS LIFESTYLE CULTURE TRAVEL WATCHTHIS SPORTS OPINION REGIONAL FORUM NEWSPAPER China Daily PDF China Daily E-paper MOBILE Copyright 1995 - . All rights reserved. The content (including but not limited to text, photo, multimedia information, etc) published in this site belongs to China Daily Information Co (CDIC). Without written authorization from CDIC, such content shall not be republished or used in any form. Note: Browsers with 1024*768 or higher resolution are suggested for this site. License for publishing multimedia online 0108263 Registration Number: 130349 About China Daily Advertise on Site Contact Us Job Offer Expat Employment FOLLOW US
