Wikipedia talk:Good article nominations - Wikipedia Wikipedia talk:Good article nominations From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Main Discussion Nominations Reassessment GA Cup Instructions Criteria Report Help Desk Shortcut WT:GAN This is the discussion page of the good article nominations (GAN). To ask a question or start a discussion about the good article nomination process, click the New section link above. Questions may also be asked at the GA Help desk. To check and see if your question may already be answered, click to show the frequently asked questions below or search the archives below. edit Frequently asked questions (FAQ) (see also: GAN instructions) Is there something we can do to restrict nominations? There have been complaints about the perceived backlog in reviewing since the good article status was created in 2006. Generally speaking, we don't want to restrict nominations along their path to GA. In 2011, each day typically listed 330 nominated articles, of which 260 were waiting for a reviewer to volunteer. For comparison, today there are currently 523 nominations listed and 432 waiting for a reviewer. While it may seem overwhelming, a large backlog isn't a bad thing. It shows that many nominators want to use GA as a tool to improve the encyclopedia, and it also allows reviewers to choose articles that interest them. From a nominator's perspective, the main concern is the expected wait time before receiving a review, not the number of articles on the nominations page. Can't we force nominators to review articles? Quid pro quo reviewing (editors must review an article before nominating, perhaps after a grace period) is regularly proposed and always rejected as likely leading to lower quality reviews and fewer nominations from excellent content creators who may not wish to review another person's work. I want to review an article. Do I have to review the oldest unreviewed nomination first? No. You may review any article you are not involved in, regardless of the nomination's age. As a courtesy to nominators who have been waiting a long time, however, you are encouraged to review the older nominations at the top of the queues first. The nominator disagrees with the reviewer. Can another reviewer take over? If your GAN experience is not going well or if you are disagreeing with the reviewer's decisions, then you can ask for a second opinion if the reviewer has not yet failed the nomination. You may also allow the review to fail, take the reviewer's suggestions into account, then immediately renominate the article (to get a different reviewer). You may even request a community reassessment. Other than these, another reviewer does not normally take over an active review. You might want to read What the Good article criteria are not. Is the "nominator" a special position? No. Anyone may nominate any article, including unregistered users and people who have never edited the article. Nominating an article is not the exclusive privilege of an article's primary authors, as nominators have no special privileges over other editors except that they can withdraw the nomination. Everyone interested in an article is encouraged to participate in the review, not just the person who happened to nominate it. However, "drive-by" nominations (nominations by editors who do not normally edit that article and may not be watching it) are not encouraged, as the nominator is expected to respond to the reviewer's suggestions to improve the article. Should nominators respond to reviewers' concerns? And what should reviewers do if they don't? All editors interested in the nominated article are encouraged, but not required, to respond to reviewers' concerns, not just the nominator. If the reviewer identifies concerns and no one responds, then no one should be surprised if the reviewer declines to list the article. "Drive-by" nominations, which are permitted, are one source of non-responsiveness. If the article does not meet the good article criteria after the reviewer has explained how the article requires improvement and has waited a reasonable amount of time for the nominator to make improvements, the reviewer is sure to fail the nomination. What if the nominator is a (perhaps dynamic) IP address? Any editor may nominate an article for GA status (while only registered users may review), so IP nominators are permitted. Remember that communication between nominator and reviewer usually takes place on the review page, not via user talk. If the IP nominator's IP address dynamically changes as they sign their comments on the review page, they may want to clarify to the reviewer that they remain the same person. An IP nominator that is responsive to the reviewer presents no problem to a successful GA review. If a nominator or other article editors are unresponsive and the article does not meet the criteria, then the nomination may be failed. Future article editors will benefit from good review comments on how to improve the article. Does an article have to be on hold for exactly seven days? No. Whether to place the nomination on hold at all, and the length of any such hold, is for the reviewer to decide. Depending on the responsiveness of the nominator, a hold may not be necessary. If the reviewer decides that it is, they may choose longer or shorter periods of hold time. The reviewer may even modify the {{GA nominee}} template on the article talk page to include a "time" parameter, for example "time=fourteen days", and the {{GANotice}} template used to convey messages to the GA nominator to include a "days" parameter, for example "days=fourteen". Keep in mind that protracted reviews show up as exceptions on the GA nominations report page. How can GA be reliable when a single reviewer decides? The quality of a good article is only as reliable as the most recent review and articles may deteriorate if unattended. The GA process deals with both of these issues by allowing repeat reviews by any registered user at any time. The process aims to encourage article improvement and build consensus on quality through multiple reviews—even though a single reviewer makes the decision whether to list the article according to the GA criteria. Any editor may contribute to any review discussion and community reassessment is available when the "one reviewer decides" model breaks down. What should I do if a review page becomes inactive? This can happen for a number of reasons. Review pages should only be started by reviewers who are willing to take an active interest in the article and are committed to completing their review of the article in a timely manner. Sometimes another editor (such as the nominator) starts the review page by mistake. A reviewer can fix this by placing their signature after "Reviewer:" towards the top of the review page, but if no reviewer is forthcoming, it may be best to delete the review page: requests for such deletions may be posted at the discussion page. However, in rare occasions a review page is created by an editor who intends to review, but then withdraws due to illness or other reasons. In such cases, the first step would be to contact the reviewer. If this does not resolve the issue, then a new reviewer is needed. In order to find one, follow the instructions page under "If the reviewer withdraws". Do not use this process to void a review you disagree with. What is the difference between GA and GA-Class? GA status is determined according to the good article criteria, while GA-Class is a WikiProject classification. GA-Class is conventionally given to articles which have GA status. GA-Class is higher than B-Class but not as high as A-Class (although, depending on the WikiProject, an A-Class article may be required to be GA). The input of WikiProject editors can be invaluable in assessing GA nominations and involvement in WikiProjects is encouraged, but GA nominators and reviewers are not obliged to follow WikiProject criteria. GA reviewers who have passed the article should update any WikiProject templates on the article talk page by changing the "class" parameter value to "class=GA". I failed the article, and the nominator just nominated it again without fixing the problems I identified! That's okay. There is no time limit between nominations, and this is the recommended process if the nominator disagrees with your review. Let someone else review it this time. The new reviewer is sure to read your suggestions to improve the article while deciding on their review. If your concerns were legitimate, then the new reviewer will doubtless agree with you and fail the article again. If the article is passed and you do not believe it meets the GA criteria, you can initiate a reassessment. What if I have concerns about the quality of a review or need to resolve a dispute over the GA process? You can bring those concerns to the discussion page to get help from other editors. Remember, however, to notify all users about whom concerns have been raised or who are involved in any dispute that you have. Archives Archive 1 Archive 2 Archive 3 Archive 4 Archive 5 Archive 6 Archive 7 Archive 8 Archive 9 Archive 10 Archive 11 Archive 12 Archive 13 Archive 14 Archive 15 Archive 16 Archive 17 Archive 18 Archive 19 Archive 20 Archive 21 Archive 22 Archive 23 Threads older than 7 days may be archived by MiszaBot II. Dated archives 18 March 2006 – 15 April 2006 15 April 2006 – 3 June 2006 April 2006 – June 2006 June 2006 – August 2006 September 2006 – April 2007 April 2007 – July 2007 July 2007 – September 2007 September 2007 – February 2008 February 2008 – May 2008 May 2008 – September 2008 October 2008 – March 2009 March 2009 – August 2009 September 2009 – May 2010 June 2010 – January 2011 January 2011 – December 2011 January 2012 – June 2012 June 2012 – October 2012 October 2012 – March 2013 March 2013 – November 2013 November 2013 – Contents 1 Open reviews for over two months 2 Reviewer MIA 3 Free review service 4 Basic question 5 Talk:Don't Tell Me (Madonna song)/GA1 Open reviews for over two months[edit] There are currently 11 reviews open by user Iazyges that are hanging "on hold" since August 24, and one extra since July 22. The user either forgot about them or doesn't care anymore. Is there something that someone could do abot this situation? Cléééston (talk) 15:10, 8 October 2018 (UTC) Pinging Iazyges. Best, Barkeep49 (talk) 15:13, 8 October 2018 (UTC) The most recent edit Iazyges made was on September 22 at Talk:Rose C. Davison/GA1, which referred to getting back to the review there: I'm planning to; I've been busy recently and I'll get around to it as soon as I can. Past experience would indicate that Iazyges does eventually get back to reviews, but it can take several weeks. Perhaps they would agree to open only a couple of reviews at a time in future so if they do get busy in real life, only one or two are left hanging. BlueMoonset (talk) 15:13, 13 October 2018 (UTC) Is it cool if I take over the review? I'm brainstorming what to do next for article creation and I usually use this downtime to review GANs. MX (✉ • ✎) 17:42, 13 October 2018 (UTC) I'm cool with anything that get those reviews done. Cléééston (talk) 03:08, 18 October 2018 (UTC) Apologies, I'll get to them ASAP. Iazyges Consermonor Opus meum 19:45, 31 October 2018 (UTC) Iazyges I was just noticing this also. I count 11 nominations you started to review, as far as placing the template on the article's talk page, and then nothing happened. They seem to be primarily in the areas of Hawaii/south seas, royalty. Perhaps you could just release the ones you don't have time to work on in the near future, and let some other interested reviewer step in. — Maile (talk) 00:14, 11 November 2018 (UTC) These are the ones I see, and the date the review template was opened: July 22, 2018 Reign of Marcus Aurelius - put on hold for improvements, but it looks like nominator Векочел has made a lot of edits since then Ptolemy XII Auletes July 23, 2018 Kulottunga I (Chola Empire royalty) August 24, 2018 Ambrose K. Hutchison (Hawaii) J. W. Lonoaea (Hawaii) William Henry Daniels (Hawaii) William P. Ragsdale (Hawaii) Hiram Kahanawai (Hawaiian royalty) Kiliwehi (Hawaiian royalty) Emma Kaili Metcalf Beckley Nakuina (Hawaiian royalty) Angata (Rapa Nui royalty) Reviewer MIA[edit] Tplaza64 started reviewing the article Ant-Man and the Wasp that I nominated for GA, but they have not contributed to Wikipedia in the almost two weeks since then. Additionally, Favre1fan93 and I are also concerned that they are not experienced enough to assess the article properly given they only began contributing this January and have made a total of 15 edits (including starting this GA review). My personal preference here is we be allowed to open the article up again for another editor to review it. Does anyone watching know what should be done in this situation? - adamstom97 (talk) 22:47, 12 November 2018 (UTC) @Adamstom.97 and Favre1fan93: With an assist from Mz7 the review was deleted, and I have changed the template so that the bot fixes it on its next pass. Best, Barkeep49 (talk) 23:00, 12 November 2018 (UTC) Awesome, thanks for the help guys! - adamstom97 (talk) 23:07, 12 November 2018 (UTC) @Adamstom.97, Favre1fan93, and Barkeep49: I have started a new review for this article, but only now saw this. I only started contributing in September, but I believe that I am experienced enough to be conducting this review (ironic COI noted). However, if anyone disagrees, or would like to help with the review/comment on it, please do. The relevant page is Talk:Ant-Man and the Wasp/GA1 --DannyS712 (talk) 09:36, 23 November 2018 (UTC) Free review service[edit] I'm offering a free GAN review service. Just leave me a note on my talk page. GANs older than three months will receive priority. Nothing is expected in return other than courtesy. The Rambling Man (talk) 22:52, 12 November 2018 (UTC) Basic question[edit] I've been searching through the GA rules and can't seem to find anything addressing whether a single nominator can have more than one GAN pending at the same time. Is this allowed? Ergo Sum 20:58, 16 November 2018 (UTC) There's nothing "officially" in the rules from what I'm aware of, though back in 2013 there was a discussion of having a limit of 10 nominations. The result was a no-go, but you may want to check out the first question of Wikipedia:Good_article_frequently_asked_questions#General for more information. From that perspective, it seems like we don't want to discourage editors from nominating articles. After all, the ultimate goal of the GAN is to help get articles to GA status. MX (✉ • ✎) 21:13, 16 November 2018 (UTC) Nope, there's nothing in the rules about this, but it is courteous to review articles as well as nominate them to keep the whole thing in balance. Courcelles is travelling (talk) 17:52, 18 November 2018 (UTC) Talk:Don't Tell Me (Madonna song)/GA1[edit] Hi everyone, it seems like the reviewer at Talk:Don't Tell Me (Madonna song)/GA1 has disappeared so the review is stuck even after addressing all the comments. Is it possible for anyone else to just check and decide upon it? —IB [ Poke ] 09:29, 23 November 2018 (UTC) @Aoba47: maybe you can take a look since you have reviewed the song articles previously? —IB [ Poke ] 21:03, 25 November 2018 (UTC) Thank you for the comment, but unfortunately, I am currently taking a wikibreak for a while. I am restricting my editing to only work in my sandbox. Good luck with it either way. Aoba47 (talk) 22:15, 25 November 2018 (UTC) Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia_talk:Good_article_nominations&oldid=870723402" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Project page Talk Variants Views Read Edit New section View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages This page was last edited on 26 November 2018, at 17:13 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
