Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,759,880 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article New York State Route 308 is a 6.19-mile-long (9.96 km) state highway within northern Dutchess County in New York State that connects U.S. Route 9 and NY 9G. The western end of the highway is in the Rhinebeck Village Historic District, a 2.6-square-mile (6.7 km2) area that features 272 buildings in a variety of architectural styles. NY 308 passes near the Dutchess County Fairgrounds, several historical landmarks, and the Landsman Kill River, a minor tributary of the Hudson River. Around 1685, the Native American Sepasco Trail ran from the Hudson eastward through modern-day Rhinebeck and ended at Lake Sepasco, roughly following NY 308 and its side roads. The trail remained until 1802, when part of the Ulster and Delaware Turnpike was chartered over it, extending from Salisbury, Connecticut, to the Susquehanna River at or near the town of Jericho (now Bainbridge). NY 308 incorporates a portion of the former turnpike. (Full article...) Recently featured: Bulgaria Are You Experienced Grasshopper Archive By email More featured articles Did you know... Einsatzgruppen murder Jews in Ivanhorod. ... that a right-wing West German newspaper claimed that an iconic Holocaust photograph (pictured) depicting the murder of Jews in Ivanhorod, Ukraine, was a Communist forgery? ... that the string-of-sausage lichen is very sensitive to air pollution and has become locally extinct over much of its former range? ... that bryologist Margaret Sibella Brown was awarded an honorary master of arts degree from Acadia University at the age of 84? ... that Robin Sparkles's "Let's Go to the Mall" was inspired by Alanis Morissette's material from her pre-Jagged Little Pill years? ... that neuroscientist Yang Dan and her team discovered that mice either enter a dream state or eat more in response to activation of certain brain neurons? ... that a small group of besieged Nizari Ismailis in the fortress of Shahdiz refused an offer of a safe withdrawal and fought against the Seljuk army from tower to tower in a last stand? ... that the Cubbington Pear Tree, voted England's Tree of the Year for 2015, is at risk of being felled during construction of High Speed 2? ... that the Ming dynasty awarded the pirate Wang Zhi 100 shoulder-loads of rice, which he dumped into the sea? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Magnus Carlsen Magnus Carlsen (pictured) defeats Fabiano Caruana to retain the World Chess Championship. NASA's InSight successfully lands on Mars. Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko declares martial law after Russian forces seize three ships in the disputed Kerch Strait near Crimea. In Canadian football, the Calgary Stampeders defeat the Ottawa Redblacks to win the Grey Cup. In motorsport, the Formula One season concludes with Lewis Hamilton winning the Drivers' Championship and Mercedes the Constructors' title. Ongoing: Sri Lankan constitutional crisis Recent deaths: Harry Leslie Smith V. K. Rao Ed Pastor Stephen Hillenburg Nominate an article On this day November 29 Pong screenshot 903 – The Abbasid Caliphate captured the Qarmatian leadership in the Battle of Hama in Syria, opening the way for the reconquest of Tulunid Egypt. 1781 – The crew of the British slave ship Zong, running low on water, began the killing of more than 130 African slaves by throwing them into the sea to claim insurance. 1847 – Oregon missionaries Marcus and Narcissa Whitman, along with about a dozen others, were killed by members of the Cayuse and Umatilla tribes, sparking the Cayuse War. 1972 – Atari released Pong (screenshot pictured), one of the first video games to achieve widespread popularity in both the arcade and home console markets. 2012 – The United Nations General Assembly voted to accord non-member observer state status to Palestine. George Brown (b. 1818) · Mary Somerville (d. 1872) · Emma Morano (b. 1899) More anniversaries: November 28 November 29 November 30 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Studies of the Fetus in the Womb is a set of two sketches by Leonardo da Vinci, made in around 1511. The studies depict the human fetus inside a dissected uterus. Da Vinci had studied human embryology with the help of anatomist Marcantonio della Torre and saw the fetus within a cadaver. This picture, the first of the two studies, shows the fetus in a breech position. Da Vinci mistakenly drew the placental cotyledons in the vascular walls of the uterus, a trait he had seen in a cow uterus but which is not found in humans. The studies were initially bequeathed to Francesco Melzi, with subsequent owners including Pompeo Leoni and Thomas Howard, 21st Earl of Arundel. Since 1690 they have been housed in the United Kingdom's Royal Collection. Sketch: Leonardo da Vinci Recently featured: Alphonse Mucha Sveti Stefan Allegory of Fortune Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,759,880 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Português Русский Svenska Tiếng Việt 中文 More than 250,000 articles: العربية Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català Čeština Esperanto Euskara فارسی 한국어 Magyar Norsk Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Українська More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Български Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά English (simple form) Galego עברית Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių മലയാളം Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=870437359" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages العربية Български Bosanski Català Čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti Ελληνικά Español Esperanto Euskara فارسی Français Galego 한국어 Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano עברית ქართული Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands 日本語 Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Română Русский Simple English Slovenčina Slovenščina Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Suomi Svenska ไทย Türkçe Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 This page was last edited on 24 November 2018, at 20:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
